{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deflang1033 {\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss SYSTEM;}
{\f1\fswiss ARIAL;}
{\f2\fnil WINGDINGS;}
{\f3\fswiss MS SANS SERIF;}
{\f4\fswiss TAHOMA;}
{\f5\fswiss ARIAL NARROW;}
{\f6\fnil ROMANS;}
{\f7\fnil TECHNICLITE;}
{\f8\fmodern LUCIDA CONSOLE;}
{\f9\fmodern COURIER;}
}

{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red0\green128\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green128\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red128\green0\blue64;
}
\paperw31995 \margr0\margl0\margt0\ATXph0 \plain \fs20 \pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs28 \b {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Coordinate Conversion System}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Coordinate Conversion System; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSMAP}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 168; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0001}\keepn \ATXnt168 Coordinate Conversion System\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The overview of the coordinate conversion system given below provides a basic understandin
g as to how the system works.  Descriptions of the individual interactive elements of the coordinate conversion system are then given.  Users rarely need to use these interactive components; but having this ability available for the unusual situation is 
comforting.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx6915\intbl \fs20 \b In This Chapter \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Intera
ctive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Overview}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Overview; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O169}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 169; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0002}\keepn \ATXnt169 Overvi
ew\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Conversion of coordinates from one coordinate system to another is a three step process, where the second step can have several \lquote sub-steps\rquote  to it.  
While it might seem strange at first, we\rquote ll first describe basic steps One and Three first, deferring Step Two.  After we\rquote ve seen what Step One and Step Three do, we\rquote ll explore how Step Two links One and Three together to form a comp
lete coordinate conversion system.  How users provide these elements the information necessary to perform their functions is then described, followed by a description of a little programming trick used to enable this basic process to efficiently and effe
ctively deal with geographic coordinates (i.e. latitude and longitude).  Finally, we wrap this overview up with a description of the naming convention the programmers used to name the thousand or so coordinate system definitions provided with the coordin
ate conversion system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step One\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('170',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Three\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('171',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Two\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('172',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Providing Information\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('173',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The Geographic Coordinate Trick\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('174',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary 
Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1
)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx5985\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Basic Step One}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Basic Step One; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_STEPONE}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 170; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0003}\keepn \ATXnt170 Basic Step One\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Given a cartesian coordinate, the coordinate conversion system must first convert this coordinate to geographic form.  This is one of two places in the entire process
 where a projection is used.  Specification of a projection, in and of its self, is useless.  The parameters to the projection must also be made known to the projection mathemagics.  Thus, in step one, the user must essentially provide the coordinate con
version system with the:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 projection; and\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the projection parameters; and\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the ellipsoid/sphere to be used, and;\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the units of the cartesian coordinate
s.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Given this information, the coordinate conversion system can then convert the cartesian X's and Y's (eastings and northings if you prefer) to geographic coordinates.  This is littl
e more than implementing the 'inverse' set of formulas of the projection.  In the jargon of projections and such, inverse refers to those formulae which convert cartesian X's and Y's back to geographic form.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 We establish the convention that these internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates are always in degrees, referenced to Greenwich, and use positive numbers for east longitude and north latitude, use negative values for west longitud
e and south latitude, and wherever coordinate pairs are used, the longitude will appear first.  Using this convention is quite convenient and consistent with most CAD and GIS packages.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 No
tice, we have not said anything yet about the datum to which these internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates are referenced.  If we had to say something, the only thing we could say, somewhat accurately, is that these internal, intermediary, geograp
hic coordinates are referenced to whatever datum the original cartesian coordinates were referenced to.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Three\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('171',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Two\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('172',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Providing Information\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('173',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The Geographic Coordinate Trick\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('174',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Basic Step Three}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Basic Step Three; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_STEPTHREE}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 171; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0004}\keepn \ATXnt171 Basic Step Three\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The final step in a coordinate conversion is the 
conversion of the internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates to cartesian form.  This is the second of two places in the entire process where a projection is used.  Specification of a projection, in and of its self, is useless.  The parameters to the
 projection must also be made known to the projection mathemagics.  Thus, in step three, the user must essentially provide the coordinate conversion system with the:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 projection; and\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the projection parameters; and\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the ellipsoid/sphere to be used, and;\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the units of the cartesian coordinates.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Of course, in this case the specifications provided must be those of the desired target coordinate system.  Given this information, the coordinate conversion system can then convert the internal, intermediary, geographic coordin
ates to cartesian X's and Y's (eastings and northings if you prefer).  This is little more than implementing the 'forward' set of formulas of the projection.  In the jargon of projections and such, forward refers to those formulae which convert geographi
c coordinates (i.e. latitude and longitude) to cartesian X's and Y's.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This process assumes, of course, that the geographic coordinates provided to it adhere to the convention for internal
, intermediary, geographic coordinates established above.  This eliminated the need to specify, for example, the units of the geographic coordinates that were to be converted.  It also eliminated the specification of the prime meridian, the quadrant spec
ifications, etc.  This becomes very convenient, as we will see later on.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Notice, we have not said anything yet about the datum to which the resulting cartesian coordinates are referenced.
  If we had to say something, the only thing we could say, somewhat accurately, is that the resulting cartesian coordinates are referenced to whatever datum the internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates were referenced to.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step One\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('170',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Two\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('172',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Providing Information\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('173',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The Geographic Coordinate Trick\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('174',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Basic Step Two}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Basic Step Two; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_STEPTWO}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 172; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0005}\keepn \ATXnt172 Basic Step Two\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 If we simply feed the results of Basic Step One to Basic Step Three, we can accomplish the conversion of coordinates from one cartesian system to another cartesian system.  However, what 
we have described so far will only work in the case where the two coordinate systems share the same geodetic reference system, i.e. they share the same datum.  So, naturally, the purpose of Basic Step Two is to perform any datum shift that may be necessa
ry.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 We have conveniently arranged for Step One to produce a geographic coordinate.  We have also arranged, quite conveniently, for Step Three to accept a geographic coordinate.  Also, qui
te conveniently, we have arranged for these geographic coordinates to adhere to a very definitive convention, and thus require no specifications except two.  These specifications are simply the datum upon which the coordinates produced by Step One are ba
sed, and the datum upon which Step Three requires its coordinates to be based.  This information is simply the datum upon which the source cartesian coordinate system is based, and the datum upon which the target cartesian coordinate system is based.  Th
us, we really have all the information necessary.  (If you're skeptical about this, hang on till we wrap this all up in about two more sections.)\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 There are several different mathematical 
methods used to convert geographic coordinates from one datum to another.  The author of this document has chosen to use the term technique; many others use the term transformation, some others use the term conversion.  In any case, these methods are ver
y different from projections, they address a completely different problem.  However, as do projections, these techniques require some parametric information.  We'll see how this information is provided below.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In converting from one cartesian system to another, it was very convenient to use a common intermediary; an intermediary common to all projections.  That is, we used geographic coordinates; geographic coordinate which adhered to a ver
y definitive convention.  In datum conversions, the same technique is used, but the common intermediary is geographic coordinates (which adhere to our specific convention) and are referenced to the World Geodetic System of 1984, i.e. WGS84, the geodetic 
reference system upon which GPS (Global Positioning System) is based.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Thus, the basic Step Two is often a two 'sub-step' process.  That is:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb60\ATXpt17\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXnt-1 1.\tab \ATXnt0 convert the internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates from the datum of the source coordinate system to geographic coordinates (still very much internal and intermediary, but I'm sure your getting tir
ed of reading that) based on WGS84, and\par
\ATXnt-1 2.\tab \ATXnt0 then converting the WGS84 geographic coordinates to geographic coordinates based on the datum to which the target coordinate system is based.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Alternatively, if the source datum and the target datum are the same, basic Step Two can become a no 'sub-step' process as it doesn't really need to do anything.  In the jargon of computer programming, in this case, Step Two doe
s nothing, silently and quickly.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Finally, it is also entirely possible that a technique for conversion directly to WGS84 is not possible.  That is, a conversion from datum XXX to WGS84 is
 not known, but a conversion from XXX to, lets say, NAD27 is known.  In this case, Step Two may have to perform several 'sub-steps" to: 1) convert from XXX to NAD27; 2) convert from NAD27 to NAD83; 3) convert from NAD83 to WGS84; and then finally, 4) con
vert from WGS84 to the target datum.  Of course, it is possible that several steps may be necessary to get from WGS84 to the target as well.  By now you have the idea.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Step Two can be sim
ply nothing, or a very convoluted series of 'sub-steps'.  However, in all cases, the basic result is the same: Using our rigid convention for internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates, convert the coordinates generated by basic Step One to the coord
inates required by basic Step Three.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step One\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('170',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Three\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('171',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Providing Information\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('173',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The Geographic Coordinate Tri
ck\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('174',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Providing Information}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Providing Information; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_PROVINFO}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 173; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0006}\keepn \ATXnt173 Providing Information\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Each of the basic three steps required some information in addition to the specific coordinates th
at are to be converted.  Step One requires information about the source coordinate system.  We briefly listed some of the information required above.  Note that the actual content and volume of this information is dependent upon the projection used.  Man
y of the parameters required are rather arcane numbers that are difficult to remember.  Basic Step Three requires the same volume and detail of information concerning the target coordinate system.  The means by which this information is provided to the c
oordinate conversion system is essentially the user interface.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The designers of the coordinate conversion system have developed a system of dictionaries to provide a simple means of addre
ssing this information.  Entries in the ellipsoid dictionary, for example, contain all the necessary information about each ellipsoid supported by the system, and assign to each entry a key name.  Thus, one needs only supply the key name to access the co
mplete description of desired ellipsoid.  Similarly for datums; only the key name is required to access the complete description of a datum.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 More importantly, the same concept applies to 
coordinate system definitions.  Entries in the Coordinate System Dictionary contain a complete description of each coordinate system, including the key names of the datums and/or ellipsoids as required.  You, the user, can supply all the information whic
h basic Step One needs to know about the source coordinate system simply by providing the key name assigned to the appropriate definition.  In the same manner, you can provide all of the information that basic Step Three needs by providing the key name a
ssigned to the target coordinate system.  Basic Step Two gets the information it requires by simply extracting the name of the referenced datum from the two referenced definitions.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 You ca
n, therefore, simply specify the most complex of coordinate conversions by simply providing the key names assigned to the two coordinate systems involved.  To convert a coordinate from NAD27 UTM Zone 13 in meters to NAD83 Colorado State Planes, Central Z
one, in Meters, for example, the user need only provide two key names: "UTM27-13" and "CO83-C".  No need to know anything about the central meridians, the scale reductions, standard parallels, origin latitudes, false northings, the polar radius, etc., et
c.  The coordinate conversion system uses the provided key names to obtain all of this information from the respective dictionaries, and pass the appropriate information on to each of the basic steps described above.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since the distribution dictionaries include most all commonly used definitions, most users need only learn a few key names to use the system effectively.  For the rare case where the distribution dictionaries do not contain th
e definitions required, interactive editors are provided to enable new definitions to be added.  For the experienced user, the editors also provide the ability to examine the distribution definitions for accuracy and compatibility with other systems.
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step One\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('170',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Three\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('171',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 
Basic Step Two\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('172',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The Geographic Coordinate Trick\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('174',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} The Geographic Coordinate Trick}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} The Geographic Coordinate Trick; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GEOCSTRICK}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 174; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0007}\keepn \ATXnt174 The Geographic Coordinate Trick\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 We have described in detail how the coordinate conversion system converts coordinates from one cartesian system t
o another.  However, it is frequently necessary to convert from cartesian coordinates to geographic coordinates or vice versa.  It is also frequently necessary that we convert to/from geographic coordinates that do not adhere to the rather rigid conventi
on established for our internal, intermediary, geographic coordinates.  Can we accomplish this using the design described so far.  Yes we can with one little trick.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The trick is to implem
ent a projection that does nothing, or almost nothing.  That is, a projection which, during basic Step One, will recognize that the source coordinate is already geographic and do nothing quickly and silently.  (Well almost nothing as we shall soon see.).
  Given such a projection, we can then make an entry in our dictionary that indicates this projection is to be used, and assign it a key name, say "LL", just like any other coordinate system definition.  Users can now instruct the coordinate conversion s
ystem that the source coordinates are already geographic by providing "LL" as the key name for the source coordinate system.  Of course, users could also specify "LL" as the target coordinate system, and cause results to be geographic.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since the "LL" entry exists in dictionary, there is no reason why it can't be referenced to a datum in exactly the same manner as all other types of coordinate systems.  So, we have "LL27" which is reference
d to NAD27, "LL83" which is referenced to NAD83, and several other similar definitions.  This means that basic Step Two can still perform as advertised without any change to the system.  Also, the definitions that are based on this "pseudo" projection wh
ich does nothing can have units assigned to them, and can have an origin longitude other than Greenwich.  Thus, for example, a definition that accepts or produces geographic coordinates based on grads and referenced to the Meridian of Paris are possible.
  Use the Coordinate System Editor (described below) to examine the coordinate system definition with key name "LL-IGN" for an example.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b 
See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step One\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('170',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Three\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('171',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Basic Step Two\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('172',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Providing Information\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('173',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Co
ordinate System Referencing}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Coordinate System Referencing; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_COORDSY_REF}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 175; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0008}\keepn \ATXnt175 Coordinate System Referencing\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 As mentioned above, coordinate syste
m definitions may reference a datum or an ellipsoid. In any case, all coordinate system definitions must contain a reference to one or the other.  Converting from the angular measurements of latitude and longitude (usually expressed in terms of degrees) 
to the linear measurements of a Cartesian system (usually in meters or feet) requires a basic parameter: the radius of the subject.  Thus even the simplest projection needs to know the radius of the body being mapped in order to convert properly.  Within
 the framework of coordinate conversion system there are two methods for specifying the radius.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 First, the coordinate system may be referenced directly to an ellipsoid.  This is accomplis
hed by entering the appropriate ellipsoid key name in the field provided in the coordinate system definition.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since all datums must be referenced to an ellipsoid, you can also specify the
 ellipsoid by referencing a datum.  This is accomplished by entering the datum key name into the appropriate field in the coordinate system definition.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In the second case, we obviously im
pute more information to the coordinate system definition.  Not only are we providing the absolutely necessary radius information, but we are also specifying the datum upon which the resulting geographic coordinates will be based.  Thus, it is always pre
ferable to reference a datum in a coordinate system definition if that is possible.  Recognizing that this information is not always available, and for certain applications not necessary, the coordinate conversion system enables coordinate system definit
ions to reference an ellipsoid directly.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This discussion is expanded in the following 4 topics:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht250 \ATXnt0 Geodetic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSREF_GEODETIC\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht251 \ATXnt0 Cartographic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSREF_CARTOG\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht252 \ATXnt0 UTM Zone R
eferences\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_UTMREF_ZONE\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht253 \ATXnt0 The LL Coordinate System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_LL_COORDSYS\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht254 \ATXnt0 Default References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DEFAULTS\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('176',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cartographic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('177',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 UTM Zone References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('178',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The LL Coordinate System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('179',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Default References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('180',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('16
8',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx5985\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Geodetic Referencing}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Geodetic Referencing; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSREF_GEODETIC}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 176; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:
0009}\keepn \ATXnt176 Geodetic Referencing\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 We shall refer to a coordinate system definition that is referenced to a specific datum as being geodetically refere
nced.  The coordinate conversion system infers from this reference that all geographic coordinates produced by this coordinate system definition are based on the referenced datum.  It is only when \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 both\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  the sourc
e and target coordinate systems are geodetically referenced that the coordinate conversion system can automatically perform datum shifts.  In all other cases, datum shifting is automatically disabled.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Wherever sufficient information was available to do so, the coordinate system definitions provided in the distribution are referenced to a specific datum and, therefore, are geodetically referenced.  The coordinate conversion system will auto
matically perform the appropriate datum shift when converting between any two of these coordinate systems.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cartographic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('177',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 UTM Zone References\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('178',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The LL Coordinate System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('179',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Default References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('180',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Cartographic Referencing}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Cartographic Referencing; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSREF_CARTOG}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 177; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0010}\keepn \ATXnt177 Cartographic Referencing\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 We shall refer to a coordinate system definition that is referenced directly to an ellipsoid as being cartographically referenced.  In such cases, the coordinate conversion system does not know which datum the intermediary geographic coordinates are
 based on.  Therefore, whenever a cartographically referenced coordinate system definition is involved in a conversion, all datum shifting is disabled.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('176',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 UTM Zone References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('178',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The LL Coordinate System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('179',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Default References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('180',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} UTM Zone References}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} UTM Zone References; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_UTMREF_ZONE}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 178; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0011}\keepn \ATXnt178 UTM Zone References\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Several of the coordinate system definitions provided in the distribution are cartographically referenced.  For example, outside of North America, there is no definitive information that Mentor Software is aware of as to what 
datums UTM coordinates are based on.  Therefore, all UTM definitions provided by Mentor Software for zones outside of North America are cartographically referenced.  This means that each of these zones is referenced to a specific ellipsoid.  Again, there
 is no definitive information as to which ellipsoid is to be used.  This probably varies from one political subdivision to another.  In the distribution, all UTM zone definitions which are not referenced to a particular datum are cartographically referen
ced to the International 1924 ellipsoid.  You may need to change this reference to another ellipsoid in order to get the results appropriate for your project.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('176',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cartographic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('177',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The LL Coordinate System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
179',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Default References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('180',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} The LL Coordinate System}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} The LL Coordinate System; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_LL_COORDSYS}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 179; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0012}\keepn \ATXnt179 The LL Coordinate System\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The coordinate conversion system includes a definition of a cartographically referenced geographic coordinate system named "\f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 LL"\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  which is especially useful.  It
 enables end users and application programmers to conveniently obtain "generic" latitude and longitude coordinates.  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 LL\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is a geographic coordinate system; that is, it is associated with the pseudo projection used for
 geographic coordinate systems.  Thus it returns latitude and longitude coordinates.  The definition specifies units of degrees and an origin of Greenwich; thus the returned values are fully consistent with the requirements of the internal, intermediary,
 geographic coordinates which were discussed above.  Finally, being cartographically referenced, this definition disables all datum shifts; thus the geographic results are always referenced to the same datum as the source coordinate system, even if that 
datum is unknown.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('176',
1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cartographic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('177',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 UTM Zone References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('178',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Default Referen
ces\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('180',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Default References}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Default References; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DEFAULTS}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 180; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Ma
in}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0013}\keepn \ATXnt180 Default References\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Some applications that use the coordinate conversion system will provide the ability to use defaults.  D
efaults apply only to the datum references, ellipsoid references, and unit portion of coordinate system and datum definitions.  Defaults should only be used by those very experienced in the nature of coordinate systems and geodetic datums.  Generally, th
e average user simply leaves all defaults turned off, and the normal application does not provide the means to activate a default.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Defaults were invented to address a specific problem.  S
pecifically, a given UTM zone, for example, may need to be referenced to any number of datums, and have any number of units.  But it is still the same UTM zone.  To accommodate this situation in the framework described above, it is possible that a sophis
ticated user may have many definitions of the same UTM zone, each with (let's say) a different datum.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The default concept enables the sophisticated user to say that, for example, the datu
m to which a coordinate system is referenced is a specific datum, but is defaultable.  That is, if a default datum value is active, the defaultable datum value is replaced by the currently active default value whenever the definition is used.  Thus, a so
phisticated user could create a definition for a specific UTM zone with a defaultable datum reference and by simply changing the default value, change the datum reference from one datum to another.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The same feature applies to ellipsoid references in coordinate system definitions and the unit values upon which a coordinate system is based.  Refer to the help file and/or documentation to learn if defaults are supported by your application an
d, if so, how to activate and set them.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('176',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cartographic Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('177',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 UTM Zone References\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('178',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 The LL Coordinate System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('179',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Coordinate System Key Name Conventions}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Coordinate
 System Key Name Conventions; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_KYNAM_CONV}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 181; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0014}\keepn \ATXnt181 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The coordinate
 conversion system derives much of its simplicity from the concept of saving complete coordinate system definitions to disk and identifying them with a key name.  A rather simple convention for assigning names to the various coordinate systems was follow
ed when the first edition of the system was released.   While this convention has largely withstood the test of time, some historical artifacts still remain in the system.  In any case, the information in the following sections will be helpful in learnin
g and remembering the key names associated with the coordinate systems you frequently need to use.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This discussion consists of the following four topics:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht255 \ATXnt0 Key Name Requirements\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_KEYNAM_REQ\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht256 \ATXnt0 Universal Transverse Mercator Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_UTM_CONV\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht257 \ATXnt0 State Plane Coordinate System Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_SPCS_CONV\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht258 \ATXnt0 Geographic Coordinate Systems\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_GEOCS_CONV\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Requirements\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('182',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Universal Transverse Mercator Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('183',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 State Plane Coordinate System Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('184',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geographic Coordinate Systems\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('185',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx5985\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard
\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Key Name Requirements}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Key Name Requirements; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_KEYNAM_REQ}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 182; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0015}\keepn \ATXnt182 Key Name Requirements\ATXnt0 
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 While the coordinate conversion system will preserve case in key name, the key names themselves are case insensitive.  That is, two key names that differ only in the case of
 one or more letters are considered to be the same for searching and location purposes.  Also, keep in mind that all key names must:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 start with a 
letter, the underscore, or the colon character;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 include only letters, numbers, the dollar sign, hyphen, underscore, space, slash, and colon charac
ters;\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 must not include a double space sequence;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 will have trailing spaces trimmed automatically;\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 must not exceed 23 characters in length\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 include the colon character if a user defined definition.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The length of key names was originally to limited to 8 characters (the good old days).  Therefore, some perversions of the general conventions described below have been retained to avoid renaming a previous
ly existing coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Universal Transverse Mercator Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('183',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 State Plane Coordinate System Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('184',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geographic Coordinate Systems\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('185',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Universal Transverse Mercator Zones}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Universal Transverse Mercator Zones; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_UTM_CONV}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 183; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0016}\keepn \ATXnt183 Universal Transverse Mercator Zones\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The names assigned to UTM zones all begin with the three letter acronym UTM.  If a datum is associated with the zone, such as NAD27, and indication of this follows the UTM designation
; e.g. \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 UTM27\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ,\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24  UTM83, \f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 etc.  The zone number is then given using a hyphen as a separator character; e.g. \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 UTM27-13\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ,\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24  
UTM83-14\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .  For many northern hemisphere zones, there is a corresponding southern hemisphere zone.  In the above examples, the datum references pretty much imply North American, so no indication of the hemisphere is necessary in the n
ame.  Outside of North America, however, an \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 N\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  or an \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 S\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is appended to the name to indicate the hemisphere of the UTM zone.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Also in North America, it is not uncommon to use UTM coordinates in feet, especially U.S. Survey feet. These definitions are distinguished from the normal UTM zones (unit = meters) by appending an \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 F\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to the e
nd of the name following the zone number.  The following table demonstrates the naming convention for UTM zones by example.\par
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb
\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl Coordinate System Key Name\cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Description\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 UTM-31N\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 UTM Zone 31, Northern Hemisphere, No Datum Reference\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb
\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM-22S\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 UTM Zone 22, Southern Hemisphere, No Da
tum Reference\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM27-13\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 NAD27 Based UTM Zone 13, in Meters\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM83-14\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 NAD83 Based UTM Zone 14, in Meters\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs
\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTMHP-16\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 HPGN (HARN) Based UTM Zone 16, in Meters\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt
\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM27-13F\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 NAD27 Based
 UTM Zone 13, in U. S. Survey Feet\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs
\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM83-14IF\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 NAD83 Based UTM Zone 14, in International Feet\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM84-23S\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 WGS84 Based UTM Zone 23, Southern Hemisphere, in meters\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr
\brdrs\cellx2730\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7455\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 UTM56-17S\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7260\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 PSAD56 Based UTM Zone 17, Southern Hemisphere, in 
meters\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \f1 \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Requirements\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('182',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 State Plane Coordinate System Zon
es\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('184',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geographic Coordinate Systems\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('185',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} State Plane Coordinate System Zones}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} State Plane Coordinate System Zones; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_SPCS_CONV}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 184; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0017}\keepn \ATXnt184 State Plane Coordinate System Zones\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 All State Plane Coordinate Systems (SPCS) begin with the two character abbreviation used by the US Postal Service. In 
those states where there is more than one zone, a zone indicator is appended after a separating hyphen. With some exceptions, zone indicators are taken from the list shown in the following table.\par
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl Zone Indicator\cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Read\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 S\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 South Zone\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth
\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 SC\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 South Central Zone\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard

\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 C\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 Central\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 NC\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 North Central\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 N\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 North Zone\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs
\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 E\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 East Zone\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 EC\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 
East Central Zone\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 WC\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 West Central\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs
\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1620\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3525\intbl \f4 \ATXnt161 W\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx8370\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \ATXnt162 West Zone\ATXnt0 
\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs16 For example, this manual is being written in the Central Zone of Colorado, or \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CO-C\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  My friends to the north of me live in ea
st central Wyoming, which would be \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 WY-EC\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The SPCS of states with a single zone, such as New Hampshire and Tennessee, are referred to with the two character state code such as \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 NH\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 TN\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In California, roman numerals are used for zone indicators, e.g. \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CA-I\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CS-II\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CA-IV\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , etc.  In Alaska, the zones are numbered 1 through 10, e.g. \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 AK-1\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 AK-5\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 AK-10\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The H
awaiian zones are numbered 1 through 5, e.g. \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 HI-1\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 HI-5\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 There are two special zone indicators which are fairly
 logical: \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 NY-LI\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  for the Long Island zone of New York, and \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 MA-IS\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  for the Island Zone of Massachusetts.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since the
 original edition of the coordinate conversion system was released prior to the advent of NAD83, the above described names apply to the NAD27 version of all state plane coordinate systems.  The NAD83 version is distinguished by inserting \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 83\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  immediately after the two character state abbreviation. For example: \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CO83-C\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 AK83-5\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 RI83\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The original, official, definition of all NAD83 State Plane Coordinate Systems specified the unit as the meter.  However, in actual usage, the U.S. Survey Foot remained popular and some states decided to include the
 International Foot as an acceptable unit.  Therefore, the unadorned NAD83 based State Plane Coordinate System definitions are based on meters.  For each such coordinate system, a variation exists in which the unit is the U. S. Survey Foot and is disting
uished by appending an \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 F\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to the name:  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CO83-CF\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ,  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 CA83-IIIF\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ,  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 WA83-NF\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  For those states where the Inte
rnational Foot has been deemed an acceptable unit, yet another variation exists in which the unit is the International Foot and is distinguished by appending \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 IF\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to the name:  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 AZ83-WIF\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that as of this writing, High Accuracy Reference Network (HARN) data exists (or will soon exist) for all 48 conterminous states.  Therefore, for most all supported NAD83 zone, t
here exists a HARN zone.  Such coordinate systems are indicated by the two character sequence "HP" following the state postal code;  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 COHP-C\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ;  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 WAHP-N\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ,  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 WYHP-EC\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 ;  \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 AZHP-EIF\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  for example.  The use of "HP" is another historical artifact.  What is now referred to as HARN (High Accuracy Reference Network) was previously referred to as High Precision GPS Network (i
.e. HPGN).  Thus, the convention adopted at the time was to use the "HP" sequence.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Requirements\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('182',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Universal Transverse Mercator Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('183',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geographic Coordinate Systems\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('185',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard
\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Geographic Coordinate Systems}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Geographic Coordinate Systems; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GEOCS_CONV}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 185; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0018}\keepn \ATXnt185 Geographic Coordinate 
Systems\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Geographic coordinate system definitions can also include specifications as to the allowable range of longitude. Normally, longitude is expected to remain wi
th the range of greater than -180 and less than or equal to +180. Geographic coordinate system definitions with the names \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 LL-360\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 LL-270\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  define geographic coordinate systems w
here longitude is specified to range from 0 to 360 and -270 to +270 respectively.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f4 \fs18 \ATXnt161 LL\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is the coordinate system name assigned to the generic geographic
 coordinate system. As its name implies, there is no datum reference. Zero longitude refers to the Greenwich prime meridian, and the unit is degrees. Thus, this coordinate system will always return the most commonly used form of geographic coordinates. S
ince there is no datum referenced, datum shifting is disabled. Thus, the geographic coordinates returned are always referenced to the same datum as the source. This is especially useful when one does not know the datum of the source coordinate system.
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System
 Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Requirements\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('182',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Universal Transverse Mercator Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('183',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 State Plane Coordinate System Zones\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('184',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Dictionary Entry Protection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Dictionary Entry Protection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DICT_PROT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 188; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0019}\keepn \ATXnt188 Dictionary Entry Protection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \fs16 \b0 Entries in the Coordinate System, Datum, and Ellipsoid Dictionary are of significant value.  Without protection, it would be easy to corrupt and/or delete important definitions.  Once a definition has been around a while and, therefore, likely
 to have been used more than once or twice, it becomes important to be relatively confident of being able to retrieve the definition for addition use, or possibly just reference.  A protection system has been added to the coordinate conversion system to 
implement the ideas discussed above.  Disabling this protection system is possible, but information as to how this can be accomplished is provided only upon request to appropriate individuals.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Duplication\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL(
'189',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Distribtution Definition Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('190',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 User Definition Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('191',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx5985\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Key Name Duplication}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Key Name Duplication; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_NAMEDUP}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 189; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0020}\keepn \ATXnt189 Key Name Duplication\ATXnt0 
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Updates to the coordinate conversion system software will often include an update to the distribution dictionaries, i.e. the data files that contain the coordinate system defin
itions, datum definitions, and ellipsoids definitions.  It is to our mutual advantage that this update process does not alter or interfere with user defined entries.  The means by which this is accomplished is by requiring that user defined entries in al
l dictionaries contain a colon in their name.  Distribution definitions will never have a colon in their name.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 It is recommended that you establish, and follow, a convention with regard t
o the key names assigned to dictionary entries you define.  For example, if the name of your company is Accurate Maps, Inc., you might adopt the convention that all coordinate system names would begin with "\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 AMI:\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 
".  In any event, by requiring user definitions to include a colon character, and avoiding the use of the colon character in the distribution dictionaries, there would never be a key name collision in dictionary entry definition names.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Distribtution Definition Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('190',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 User Definition Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('191',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Distribtution Definition Protection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Distribtution Definition Protection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DISTPROT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 190; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0021}\keepn \ATXnt190 Distribtution Definition Protection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 All distribution definition entries are protected.  No doubt this is somewhat painful for the experienced user.  However, service call logs indicate that this feature has spared inexperienc
ed users enormous amounts of pain and grief.  If you attempt to modify a definition that was part of the original coordinate system definition distribution, you will be informed that the definition is protected and that you will not be able to save your 
changes.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictio
nary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Duplication\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('189',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 User Definition Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('191',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} User Definition Protection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} User Definition Protection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_USRPROT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 191; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0022}\keepn \ATXnt191 User Definition Protection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Once a user definition has remained unchanged for 60 days, the coordinate conversion system will automatically apply protection to the definition.  The idea here is that a coordinate system which has rem
ained unchanged for 60 days is a valid definition and has been used a few times.  Therefore, it is important to maintain a record of this definition.  If you attempt to modify a definition that was part of the original coordinate system definition distri
bution, you will be informed that the definition is protected and that you will not be able to save your changes.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Key Name Duplication\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('189',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Distribtution Definition Protection
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('190',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Interactive Dialog Support}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Interactive Dialog Support; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DIALOG_SUPPOR
T}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 186; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0023}\keepn \ATXnt186 Interactive Dialog Support\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Certain aspects of the interactive dialog are of a supporting nature and apply
 to all, or most, of the individual dialogs.  These aspects are described in this section, in the following four topics:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht259 \ATXnt0 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSATOF\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht260 \ATXnt0 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DICT_PROT\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht261 \ATXnt0 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_NEWKEYNM\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht262 \ATXnt0 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSBROWSER\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht263 \ATXnt0 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DTSELECTOR\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 
\tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht264 \ATXnt0 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_ELSELECTOR\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx6480\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Numeric Data Entry}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Numeric Data Entry; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSATOF}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 187; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0024}\keepn \ATXnt187 Numeric Data Entry\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Several of the interactive dialogs presented by the coordinate conversion system require that you provide numeric input.  For your convenience, you may enter numeric values in any one of several forms described below to enter numeric values.  Valid
 forms of numeric data entry are best shown by example.  Refer to the tables shown below.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note, that when entering X/Easting and/or Y/Northing coordinates, thousands separators (i.e. the 
comma) may be used.  However, it used, the separator must be used consistently and accurately as a thousands separator or an error condition will be reported.  You may use either the plus/minus sign, or the directional characters, to indicate the sign of
 the value.  Using both is considered to be ambiguous and causes an error condition.\par
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt26\li105\ri0\sl240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20\ATXbrdr40 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl
\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \b Valid Entry\cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt26\li105\sl240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20\ATXbrdr40 \intbl Comments\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \f5 \fs18 \b0 \ATXnt162 500000.00\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Standard format, decimal point is not required for this value.\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100
\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \ATXnt162 500,000.00\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Commas can be used, but must be properly positioned\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard

\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \ATXnt162 500,000.00E\ATXnt0 
\cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Directional character E indicates positive value; X coordinates only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105
\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \ATXnt162 500,000.00W\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Dire
ctional character W indicates negative value; X coordinates only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs
\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \ATXnt162 1,000,000.00S\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Directional character S indicates negative value; Y coordinates only\ATXnt0 
\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \ATXnt162 1,234,567.89N\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f1 \fs16  \f5 \fs18 \ATXnt162 Directional character N indicates positive value, Y coordinates only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \ATXnt162 -1.23456789E+06\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Exponential notation is supported.\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2100\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl
\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx7890\intbl \f1 \fs22 \cell
\pard\tx7395\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \f5 \fs18 \ATXnt162 Blank fields are considered zero.\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs16 Note that you may input either decimal degrees, degrees and minutes, or degrees, minutes, and seconds.  The space character is used to separate minutes from degrees, and seconds from degrees.  A numeric entry that contain
s a single space (the space being neither leading or trailing) causes the entered values to be parsed as a degree and minutes specification.  Similarly, if two spaces are entered, degrees, minutes, and seconds form is assumed.  You may use either the plu
s/minus sign, or the directional characters, to indicate the sign of the value.  Using both is considered to be ambiguous and causes an error condition.\par
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt26\li105\ri0\sl240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20\ATXbrdr40 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \b Valid Entry\cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt26\li105\sl240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15
\brsp20\ATXbrdr40 \intbl Comments\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \f5 \fs18 \b0 \ATXnt162 -123.456789\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Decimal degrees\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 123.456789W\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 D
ecimal degrees, directional character W indicates negative value, Longitude only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190
\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 123.456789E\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Decimal degrees, directional character E indicates positive value, Long
itude only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 45  30  35.34N\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Degrees, minutes, and seconds form, directional character N indicates positive value, Latitude only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 45  56.12345S\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Degrees and minutes form, directional character S indicates negative value, Latitude only\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 105  07  12\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Degr
ees, minutes, and seconds form; no sign indication produces positive result\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190
\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 -105  07\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Degrees and minutes form, negative value indicates west longitude\ATXnt0 
\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2190\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx14730\intbl \ATXnt162 45  5  6
.123456N\ATXnt0 \cell
\pard\tx7800\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \ATXnt162 Degrees, minutes, and seconds form with high precision, N indicates positive latitude value\ATXnt0 \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \f1 \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 
!AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} New Key Name Dialog}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} New Key Name Dialog; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_NEWKEYNM}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 193; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0025}\keepn \ATXnt193 New Key Name Dialog\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Creation of a new dictionary entry requires that the user provide a new, unique, key name to be assigned to the entry.  A single dialog that performs this function is used in several different places.  The dialog
 presented is similar to that show immediately below.  Whenever you are presented with this dialog, note that you are being asked to:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb60\ATXpt17\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXnt-1 1.\tab \ATXnt0 provide a key name whi
ch must (usually) contain a colon character, and\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb60\ATXpt17\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXnt-1 2.\tab \ATXnt0 provide a key name which is not already assigned to an existing definition.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht192 \{bmc newkynm.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O192}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Preserve existing definition data for editing\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  check box to make the creation of new definitions easier.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 To make a new variation of an existing coordinate system definition, for example, first display the existing definition (qu
ite possibly a protected distribution definition) that is to be modified.  Then click the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 New\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button.  In the resulting New Key Name dialog, enter the new key name and check the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Preserve existing 
definition data for editing\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  box before dismissing the dialog.  The editor (the coordinate system editor in this example) will then essentially copy all of the data elements of the previously displayed dictionary entry (coordinate system
 definition in this example) to the new entry being created.  You need only change the specific item(s) that are different before saving the new definition.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1
)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic D
ata Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Coordinate System Browser}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Coordinate System Browser; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHL
PID_CSBROWSER}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 195; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0026}\keepn \ATXnt195 Coordinate System Browser\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This dialog is made available through a browse button (often a smal
l button with a \lquote B\rquote  as the label) wherever a coordinate system name is required.  Use this dialog to lookup the key name of a coordinate system that you don\rquote t happen to remember.  Since there are more than a thousand different coordi
nate system definitions in the dictionary, it is often faster and more convenient to just type the name in if you do know the appropriate key name.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht194 \{bmc csbrwse.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} 
O194}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The coordinate system browser breaks the task of locating a coordinate system down to two separate tasks.  First, you will need to select the group to which the 
coordinate system belongs (or at least the group you think it belongs to).  Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Group\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  drop down list to select a group from those listed.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Once th
e group has been selected, the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Key Name\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  drop down list will include the key names of all coordinate systems that belong to the selected group.  As you peruse this drop down list, pertinent information concerning the 
coordinate system is displayed in the data area of the dialog box.  Use this information to verify that the key name selected is indeed the key name of the desired coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Clic
k \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Select\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to cause the current key name to be copied to the coordinate system name field of the original dialog box.  Of course, you can click \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to terminate the browser.
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog
 Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Datum Reference Selector}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Datum Reference Selector; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DTSELECTOR}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 197; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0027}\keepn \ATXnt197 Datum Reference Selector\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The coordinate conversion system's coordinate system editor will display a dialog similar to that shown below when you request to specify a new or different datum reference.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht196 \{bmc dtselct.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O196}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Key Name\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  drop down list to choose the datum that you wish to have your coo
rdinate system definition reference.  Use the data displayed on the dialog to verify that the key name selected does indeed reference the specific datum you wish to reference.  Choose \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Select\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to cause the currently di
splayed datum to be set as the selected datum in your coordinate system definition.  Choose \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to terminate the dialog without making a selection.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Ellipsoid Reference Selector}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Ellipsoi
d Reference Selector; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_ELSELECTOR}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 199; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0028}\keepn \ATXnt199 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The coordinate conversion system
's coordinate system editor and datum editor will display a dialog similar to that shown below when you request to specify a new or different ellipsoid reference.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht198 \{bmc elselct.
bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O198}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Key Name\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  drop down list to choose the ellipsoid that you wish to have your coordinate system or datu
m definition reference.  Use the data displayed on the dialog to verify that the key name selected does indeed reference the specific ellipsoid you wish to reference.  Choose \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Select\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to cause the currently displayed e
llipsoid to be set as the selected ellipsoid in your coordinate system or datum definition.  Choose \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to terminate the dialog without making a selection.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Data Directory Dialog}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Data Director
y Dialog; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DATADIR_DLG}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 201; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0029}\keepn \ATXnt201 Data Directory Dialog\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The coordinate conversion system requires access t
o a large number of data files including, among others, the three files which carry the three dictionaries.  It is an essential part of the design that the coordinate conversion system be able to locate these data files without assistance from the operat
or each time coordinate conversion is required.  Most applications which use the coordinate conversion system provide for the installation of the appropriate data files in a location know to the application.  The coordinate conversion system, therefore, 
knows where to find them.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht200 \{bmc csdatadr.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O200}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Your system may use more tha
n one application which uses the same coordinate conversion system.  You may, therefore, consider it desirable for all such applications to access the same set of dictionary files.  Applications therefore, often supply access to this dialog so that you, 
the user, can specify the specific directory (and the exact files names for that matter) where the dictionaries and other data files are located.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since this dialog is rarely used, there i
s no browse button.  You must key in the entire path to the supporting data directory.  You can also specify the names of the files (i.e. file names) that are to be used.  This can be useful for an administrator who needs to define, and test, new coordin
ate systems before making them generally available to the user community.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric
 Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1220',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Geodetic Data Catalog Entry}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Geodetic Data Catalog Entry; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GDE}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1220; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0030}\keepn \ATXnt1220 Geodetic Data
 Catalog Entry\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 While the coordinate conversion system's Geodetic Data Catalog Editor enables users to manipulate entries in the catalog, it is the Geodetic Data Cata
log Entry Dialog which enables users to enter/modify the individual elements of such an entry.  When appropriate, the coordinate conversion system will display the Geodetic Data Catalog Entry Dialog, which looks something like this:\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht1218 \{bmc gdeedit.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1218}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use this dialog to modify the individual elements of an entry as desc
ribed below.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 File Name:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  The actual file name, and the file name's extension, of the entry is displayed in this field
.  Use this field to enter the name of the file which is to be referenced by this entry.  While you can key in the file name, it is usually more convenient (and accurate) to use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Browse\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button provided.  Note that
 for the \f7 \ATXnt152 .las/.los\f1 \ATXnt0  file pairs (e.g. \f7 \ATXnt152 conus.las\f1 \ATXnt0  and \f7 \ATXnt152 conus.los\f1 \ATXnt0 ), the extension needs to be set to \f7 \ATXnt152 .l?s\f1 \ATXnt0 .  The browser will do this automatically for you. 
 Use of the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 File Name Browse \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 button will also cause the path to the file to entered into the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 File Path\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  field which is next described.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 File Path:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   The drive/directory path to the file is displayed in this field.  While you can key in the entry manually, it usually best to simply use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 File Name Browse\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button which will accur
ately fill in the value for this field.  Note that this field will always display the full path to the file.  You should not try to put a relative path in this field.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Force absolute reference:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  References to datum shift grid files can be stored in absolute or relative form.  The absolute form usually looks like that shown in the image above.  (Universal Naming Convention
 (UNC) form of an absolute reference is also supported.)  Relative references take the form of a '.' or a '..'.  That is, a 'dot', or a 'double dot'.  The 'dot' is interpreted to be shorthand for full path to the directory in which the Geodetic Data Cata
log resides.  The 'double dot' is interpreted to be shorthand for the full path to the parent directory of the directory in which the Geodetic Data Catalog resides.  The coordinate conversion system will (normally) determine if relative referencing can b
e used and use it whenever appropriate.  Check this box to turn this feature off, thereby forcing the reference to the file to be stored in absolute form.  [Note: relative referencing makes it easy to move the catalog and the referenced files to differen
t directories while absolute referencing is useful when a user desires to share a single copy of a referenced file among several different applications.]\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Buffer Size:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  The coordinate conversion system automatically chooses a file data buffer size which is appropriate for a specific file.  This size tends to be a minimum size which is consistent with efficient use of system resources.  Users can override this automati
c determination by entering a value in this field.  Users can then cause the coordinate conversion system to use a large buffer size (i.e. increase performance) for the specific files which they know will be used frequently.  Set the buffer size to zero 
to return to the automatic mode.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Grid Cell Size:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  The size of the grid cell within the datum shift grid file is one o
f the criteria the coordinate conversion system uses to select a specific data file for use.  While the grid cell size can be, and is, computed from data in the file, users can use this field to override the result of the automatic calculation.  Thus, us
ers can obtain fine manual control over the normally automatic process of datum shift grid file selection.  Note, that the size of a grid cell is specified in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 minutes\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  of longitude/latitude.  Enter a zero to have
 the coordinate conversion system use the calculated value.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Options:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  Geodetic Data Catalog format specifications support the specification of several options.  As of this writing, no su
ch options have been implemented.  In future releases, check boxes or radio buttons in this area of the dialog will enable users to selectively turn these options on and off.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Commit:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  Click the commit button to dismiss the dialog and cause the changes made to be recorded in the currently active Geodetic Data Catalog file.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  Click the Cancel button to dismiss the dialog without changing the contents of the currently selected Geodetic Data Catalog.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See
 Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Numeric Data Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('187',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Key Name Dialog
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('193',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Browser\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('195',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('197',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Reference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('199',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('201',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Interactive Dialogs}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Interactive Dialogs; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_USER_DIALOGS}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 202; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ
168:0031}\keepn \ATXnt202 Interactive Dialogs\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The coordinate conversion system provides five interactive dialogs which can be used to maintain the system.  Und
er normal circumstances, users rarely need to use any of these dialogs.  However, it is comforting to know that this ability is available.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The discussion of the interactive dialogs is acc
omplished in the following five topics:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht265 \ATXnt0 Data Directory Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DATADIR_DLG\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht266 \ATXnt0 Coordinate System Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSED_OVRVW\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht267 \ATXnt0 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DTEDIT\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht268 \ATXnt0 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_ELEDIT\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht269 \ATXnt0 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSTEST\v0 \ATXv0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('215',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('217',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 MGRS Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('221',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Co
ordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx6480\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Coordinate System Definition Editor}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Coordinate System Definition Editor; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSED_OVRVW}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 203; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0032}\keepn \ATXnt203 Coordinate System Definition Editor\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the Coordinate System Editor to examine, modify, create, and delete coordinate systems.  Upon activation, you are presented 
with a standard Windows tabbed dialog box, also known as a property sheet.  Each page of the tabbed dialog box is described in the following sections.  Of immediate importance are the four buttons on the bottom of the dialog box.  These control the opera
tion of the editor and the labels and functions of these buttons change as the state of the editor changes.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Close\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to close the dialog box when finished with it.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 New\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to create a new definit
ion.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Save\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to save changes made to an existing or new definition.  New definitions are not act
ually created until 'saved' in this manner.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to cancel all changes made to a definition
, or cancel the addition of a new definition.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delete\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to delete the currently displayed coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Help\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to obtain help on using the editor.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Immediately upon sensing a change to th
e currently displayed coordinate system, the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 New\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delete\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  buttons are replaced with \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Save\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  
buttons; thus indicating that your changes to the existing coordinate system definition must be either \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Save\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 'ed or \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 'ed before you will be permitted to define a new coordinat
e system, or delete an existing coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Identification Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('205',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 General
 Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('207',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Origins Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('209',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Extents Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('211',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Parameter Page(s)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('213',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('215',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('217',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx6480\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 MGRS Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('221',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Identification Page}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Identification Page; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_C
SED_IDENT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 205; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0033}\keepn \ATXnt205 Identification Page\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Identification\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  page of the tabb
ed Coordinate System Editor dialog box to select the specific coordinate system definition you wish to examine, modify, or delete.  This page also shows the information usually used to identify a specific coordinate system and hence the name assigned to 
this tab.  This page also provides the facilities for entering/modifying this information.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht204 \{bmc csidnt.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O204}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The edit fields are used as follows:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Key Name\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is the actual key name assigne
d to the coordinate system definition.  This is the name by which you access the definition when performing coordinate conversions.  Obviously, the key name assigned to a given coordinate system definition must be different from the key names assigned to
 all other coordinate systems.  You may select a coordinate system for display/edit by selecting its name from the drop down list, or by clicking on the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Browse\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button located to the right of this field.  Note, when p
erusing a drop down list, keying in a letter on the keyboard is a fast way to seek to entries in the list that start with that letter.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Description\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  consists of descriptive text indicating the official title or the use and purpose of the coordinate system.  This information is not used by the coordinate conversion system in any way other than to display it at appropriate 
times to assist you in selecting coordinate systems and or assuring that a coordinate system definition selected by key name is indeed the coordinate system you desired.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Source\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  refers to the source of the information used to define the coordinate system.  Again, the coordinate conversion system does not use this information in any way other than to display it at appropr
iate times.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Country/State\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is not used currently. In future releases this field may be used to encode the various countries and states in which use of this coordinate system is appropria
te.  Countries will be encoded using the two character ISO code assigned to each country in upper case letters.  Each country code may be optionally followed by local state/province codes in lower case letters.  Spaces and other punctuation characters ar
e ignored.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Locations\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is not used currently. In future releases this file will be used to encode the geographic areas, in a non-political manner, where use of this coordinate system is a
ppropriate.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 General Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('207',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Origins Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('209',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Extents Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('211',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Parameter Page(s)\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('213',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} General Page}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} General Page; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSED_GENRL}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 207; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0034}\keepn \ATXnt207 General Page\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 \ATXht206 \{bmc csgnrl.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O206}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 General\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  page is used to display/modify the general characteristics of the coordinate system.  These characteristics include:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Projection:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Select the projection upon which the coordinate is based.  The coordinate conversion system currently supports thirty two projections and variations of several of these.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Referenced To:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Coordinate system definitions must be referenced to either a datum or an ellipsoid. The coordinate system editor uses this group box to indicate t
he type of reference, and the specific entity, to which the current coordinate system is referenced.  To change the reference, click on the appropriate box on the right hand side.  Selecting a new datum using the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht270 Select differe
nt Datum\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DTSELECTOR\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  button will automatically change the type of reference to 'Datum' if necessary.  Similarly, the editor will, if necessary, change the type of reference to 'Ellipsoid' if a differ
ent ellipsoid is chosen as the coordinate system reference using the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht271 Select different Ellipsoid\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_ELSELECTOR\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  button.  References can be defaultable.  Defaults are useful onl
y to experienced users, and only then in rare situations.  Refer to the section on \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht272 Defaults\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DEFAULTS\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information on this feature.  Do no check this box unless you
 are very comfortable with the information discussed there.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Unit:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Select the unit upon which coordinate system coor
dinates are to be based.  The available choices are provided in drop down list form.  Note that the unit named \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Foot\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  refers to the U. S. Survey foot, the most commonly used unit of feet.  The unit named \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 IFoot\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  refers to the International Foot, a less frequently used, and slightly different, unit.  The choices available will switch to angular units when the chosen projection in the pseudo projection used for geographic coordinate sys
tems.  Units can be defaultable.  Defaults are useful only to experienced users, and only then in rare situations.  Refer to the section on \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht272 Defaults\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DEFAULTS\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more info
rmation on this feature.  Do no check this box unless you are very comfortable with the information discussed there.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Scale Reduction is also referred to as the Scale of the Central Meridian.  Scale reduction is not applicable to all projections and this field is disabled (grayed out) for those projections for which it is not applicable.  (For the pseud
o UTM projection, this field is grayed out to indicate that the user cannot change the preset scale reduction of 0.9996.)  For those projections where it is applicable use this field to enter the scale reduction factor for the coordinate system.  The act
ual numeric value is usually (but not necessarily) slightly less than or equal to one.  For example, the scale reduction use for all UTM zones is 0.9996.  The scale reduction, in the form of a ratio, is shown just to the right of this edit box.  You can 
enter the scale reduction factor in ratio form if you like.  To do so, be sure that the first two characters of your entry are '1:'.  These must then be followed by the appropriate integer value (which may include a thousands separator).  The editor will
 display the numeric form in the edit box, and the ratio form to the right upon completion of your entry.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Map (paper) Scale:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   This value is almost always set to one (i.e. 1.0).  Other values are used only when working with coordinates on a scaled map.  For example, when designing a coordinate system that is to represent inches on a map scaled at 1:24,000, you would ente
r 24,000 in this field to indicate the scale of the map.  In this case, you would also need to set the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Unit\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  specification to \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Inch\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  Again, ratio form may be used to enter the map
 scale, and is displayed to the right of the numeric value.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Quadrant:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   In rare cases, coordinate systems need to be defined, for example, where X coordinates increase to the west, or Y 
coordinates increases to the south.  Occasionally, there is a need to be able to swap the axes.  The Quadrant field can be used to accommodate these rather rare situations.  This field consists of a drop down list which provides the following choices:
\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 X/Lng increases to the east, Y/Lat increases to the north \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 (normal)\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 
X/Lng increases to the west, Y/Lat increases to the north\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \fs16 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 X/Lng increases to the west, Y/Lat increases to the south\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \fs16 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 X/Lng increases to the east, Y/Lat increases to the south\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \fs16 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y/Lat increases to the east, X/Lng increases to the north\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \fs16 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y/Lat increases to the west, X/Lng increases to the north\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \fs16 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y/Lat increases to the west, X/Lng increases to the south\ATXnt0 \par
\f2 \fs16 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y/Lat increases to the east, X/Lng increases to the south\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs16 The standard distribution includes several coord
inate system definitions which use this feature to provide a latitude and longitude system where west longitude is positive.  Use the coordinate system editor to look at the coordinate system with key name \f8 \fs18 \ATXnt160 WPLL27\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  for
 an example of this use.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Identification Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('205',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Origins Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('209',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Extents Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('211',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Parameter Page(s)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('213',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Origins Page}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Origins Page; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSED_ORGNS}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 209; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0035}\keepn \ATXnt209 Origins Page\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origins\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  page of the Coordinate System Editor to examine/modify the origins assigned to t
he coordinate system. Typically, two origins are provided:  Geographic Origin and the False Origin.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht208 \{bmc csorgn.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O208}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\sa0\ATXpt107\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b Coordinate System Origin\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Coordinate System Origin\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is given by the geographic coordinates of 
the point at which the projection mathematics produce a zero value for X and Y Cartesian coordinates before the application of the False Origin.  (There are some exceptions to this, most notably the oblique Mercator projections.)  This is specified in te
rms of the Origin Longitude and the Origin Latitude.  Both specifications \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 must\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  be given in degrees. The longitude value \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 must\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  be specified relative to the Greenwich Prim
e Meridian. Use negative values for west longitude and south latitude.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 For several projections, the Origin Longitude is the same as the Central Meridian that is usually specified on the P
arameter Page.  In these cases, the Origin Longitude field will be disabled (grayed out).  Enter the Origin Longitude as the Central Meridian on the Parameter page in these cases.  For several projections, the Origin Latitude field will also be disabled.
  This is true when the Origin Latitude is required (by the projection) to be the equator or, in certain cases, is determined by parameters given on the Parameter page.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b The False Origin\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 False Origin\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  consists of X and Y offsets which are added to all coordinates.  False Origins are often zero.  They are used for two reasons.  First, it is considered desirable to have all 
Cartesian coordinates to be positive numbers.  False Origins are often chosen, therefore, to be large enough to cause all X and Y coordinates in the useful range of the coordinate system to be positive.  Second, False Origins are often used in multiple-z
one systems to identify the specific zone being used.  For example, in the 1983 version of Texas State Plane Coordinates, there are five zones, and the northing for each is used to make if very difficult to mistakenly use coordinates in the wrong zone.
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b Minimum Non-Zero Coordinate Values\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Minimum Non-Zero Coordinate\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  values a
re used to preclude very small numbers in the output results. For example, in rare cases, it is possible for coordinate conversions to generate coordinate values very close to zero but not exactly zero; 1.2343510\f3 \fs12 \up10 \ATXnt128 -27\f1 \fs16 
\up0 \ATXnt0  for example.  When printed in a report, such numbers can be very distracting and in some cases cause severe problems.  The values provided in the Minimum Non-Zero Coordinate value fields indicate the threshold under which the coordinate conver
sion system will force small values for X and Y coordinates (longitude and latitude for a geographic coordinate system) to hard zeros.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b S
ee Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Identification Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('205',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 General 
Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('207',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Extents Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('211',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Parameter Page(s)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('213',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Extents Page}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Extents Page; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSED_EXTNT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 211; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0036}\keepn \ATXnt211 Extents Page\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Extents\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  page to examine/modify the useful range limits of the coordinate system definition.  If values are not provided (i.e. simply left empty or set at zero for both minimum and maximum values) the coordinate conversion system w
ill automatically compute rather liberal values for the useful range each time the coordinate system is used.  You can use this page to specify values to override the automatic values calculated by the coordinate conversion system.  Please note, specific
ations for either type of extent must be complete.  You cannot simply change a maximum specification and expect the coordinate conversion system to supply the minimum automatically.  If you supply any information at all, you must supply a complete specif
ication.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht210 \{bmc csextnt.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O210}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 To maintain performance at the highest 
possible levels, the coordinate conversion system checks coordinate values against the extents specified here only when, and to the degree, necessary or when requested for a specific operation.  That is, the default mode of operation for coordinate conve
rsions is to convert as fast as possible and only check for coordinate which may cause a real number exception such as dividing by zero.  Various operations which involve coordinate conversion may have different default modes of operation.  Check the doc
umentation of the feature you plan to use for more information.  If no information is provided, you can assume that minimal checking is the default.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Identification Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('205',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 General Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('207',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Origins Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('209',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Parameter Page(s)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('213',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Parameter Page(s)}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Parameter Page(s); }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSED_PARMS}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 213; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0037}\keepn \ATXnt213 Parameter Page(s)\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Usually at least one \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Parameter\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  page is visible, but up to four parameter pages may be required to display all of the parameters associated with a specific projection.  Of course, the parameters shown at any give
n time are those required/supported by the projection of the currently selected coordinate system.  Each parameter is given its own label that indicates the purpose of the parameter.  These labels will change as the projection selected on the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 General\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  page is changed to indicate the specific nature of the parameters appropriate for the selected projection.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht212 \{bmc csparms.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O212}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Wherever a latitude is required as a parameter value, the latitude must be specified in degrees north of the equator.  South latitudes are must be indicated by ente
ring a negative number or qualifying the input with the S directional character.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Similarly, wherever a longitude is required as a parameter value, the value must be entered in degrees, ea
st of Greenwich.  That is, all longitudes entered on the parameter screen must be relative to Greenwich where positive values are used for longitude east of Greenwich, and negative values are used for values west of Greenwich.  The W directional characte
r may be used to indicate west longitude as well.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Wherever an angle is required as a parameter value, the value must be entered in degrees east of north.  A negative value would indicate 
an azimuth west of north.  Again, the E and W directional characters may be used to indicate the proper sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also 
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Identification Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('205',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 General Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('207',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Origins Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('209',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Extents Page\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('211',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Datum Editor}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Datum Editor; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_DTEDIT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 215; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0038}\keepn \ATXnt215 Datum Editor\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the Datum Editor to examine, modify, cr
eate, and delete entries in the Datum Dictionary.  Upon activation, you are presented with a standard Windows dialog box.  Of immediate importance are the four buttons on the bottom of the dialog box.  These control the operation of the editor and the la
bels and functions of these buttons change as the state of the editor changes.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Close\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to close
 the dialog box when finished using it.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 New\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to create a new definition.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Save\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to save changes made to an existing or new definition.  New definitions are not actually created until saved.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Can
cel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to cancel all changes made to a definition, or cancel the addition of a new definition.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 D
elete\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to delete the currently displayed datum definition from the dictionary.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Help\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to obtain help on using the editor.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Information concerning the elements of a datum definition are displayed in the edit fields described below.  Of course, you use these 
same fields to modify or create a new definition.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht214 \{bmc dtedit.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O214}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Key Name:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Key name is the unique name assigned to a datum definition.  This name is what actually appears in the definition of a coordinate system that references this datum.  This na
me must uniquely identify the datum in the dictionary; that is, two datum definitions cannot have the same key name.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Group:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Currently unused, the group field may be used in future rele
ases to group datum definitions into smaller groups for easier selection and use.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Description:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Description carries 
the official name of the datum, or a description of its use and purpose.  Descriptions often help resolve ambiguities about the many different datum definitions available.  The coordinate conversion system does not use the description field in any way ot
her than displaying it appropriate times.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Source:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Use the source field to record the source of information used to define this datum.  The coordinate conversion system does not use the
 description field in any way other than displaying it appropriate times.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Ellipsoid:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   All datums must be referenced to a specific ellipsoid.  To select a different ellipsoid than that w
hich is currently shown, or to obtain a more definitive description of the ellipsoid shown, click the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Change Ellipsoid \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 button to the right of this field.  This will activate the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht264 Ellipsoid R
eference Selector\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_ELSELECTOR\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  dialog.  If the ellipsoid you need is not listed within the Ellipsoid Reference Selector dialog, than it does not exist in the Ellipsoid Dictionary and the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Ellipsoid Editor\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (next described) will need to be used to enter it.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Convert To WGS84 Via:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Use this field to choose which of the 16 techniques currently available
 is to be used to convert coordinates based on this datum to WGS84 coordinates.  The available selections are:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt94\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Bursa/Wolf Transformation:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   To 
use the Bursa/Wolfe Transformation, all seven parameters in the lower half of the dialog box must be provided.  Note, that the Seven Parameter Transformation accepts the exact same types of parameters, and is very similar to the Bursa/Wolf transformation
.  If you are not sure, you may need to convert some test coordinates using both of these techniques to assure that your definition references the correct technique.\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt94\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 HARN->NAD83/WGS84 via NADCON:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   HARN is an acronym for High Accuracy Reference Network.  HPGN is an acronym for High Precision GPS Network.  Both of these terms refer to the same thing.  This 'thing' has also been referred to as NAD8
3/91.  This 'thing' is a rework of NAD83 with the aid of GPS technology, as GPS was not functional in 1983.  Note that this selection is useful only for real estate residing in the 48 conterminous United States. This technique requires the existence of a
 Geodetic Data Catalog file named Nad83ToHarn.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt94\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \tab This technique selection implies the use of the algorithms and data files of the U. S. National Geodetic Survey's NADCON program to effect the shift between NAD83 and HARN.  Since NAD83 and WGS84 are generally considered to be the same, no furth
er operations are performed.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Is NAD83, No Shift Required:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Choosing this selection is, currently, the same as choosing WGS84.  That is, the coordinate conversion system considers NAD83 and WGS84 to be essentiall
y the same thing.  This is a generally accepted position, and no conversion between NAD83 and WGS84 has been published by any governmental agency.  This option implies that the data is already referenced to WGS84 and no further datum shifts are necessary
.  This entry is provided to enable the implementation of an NAD83 to WGS84 conversion technique should such ever become available and/or desirable.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Is WGS84, No Shift Required:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   The selection made in this box d
etermines the technique which is to be used to convert from the datum being defined to WGS84.  Choosing this technique instructs the coordinate conversion system to do nothing.  Thus, this selection is used to define the WGS84 datum, or any one of its ve
ry close neighbors.  In other words, this selection implies that the datum being defined is already referenced to WGS84 and datum shifting is not required.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Molodensky:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Choose this selection to use the Molodensk
y Transformation. To use the Molodensky, the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta X\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta Y\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta Z\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters will need to be known and provided in the edit fields 
provided.  Molodensky is the simplest, fastest, but least accurate of the nine techniques available.  However, the information necessary to perform a Molodensky transformation is the most generally available and, therefore, the Molodensky is quite freque
ntly used despite its drawbacks.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Multiple Regression ala DMA:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   This technique requires the existence of an \f7 \ATXnt152 .MRT\f1 \ATXnt0  file (Multiple Regression Transformation).  Such files are produced as a 
part of the coordinate conversion system development from information obtained from U. S. Defense Mapping Agency Technical Report 8350.2-B (December 1987).  Currently, users cannot examine, modify, or create new .MRT files.  This may change in the future
.\par
\tab This technique is usually, on average, accurate to within 2 meters.  Note that the .MRT file has the base name as the key name of the datum.  Therefore, for historical reasons, all datum definitions that use this technique have fixed key name
s which are 8 or less characters in length.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 NAD27->NAD83 via NADCON:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   This technique is appropriate for data based on the North American Datum of 1927 only.  The algorithm and data files used by the U. S. Nation
al Geodetic Survey's NADCON program and/or Geomatics Canada's National Transformation programs are used to convert data to the North American Datum of 1983.  Conversions, in these cases, produce numeric results identical to the programs published by the 
respective governmental agencies.  Be sure that your application has access to the appropriate data files.  This technique requires the existence of a Geodetic Data Catalog file named Nad27ToNad83.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data C
atalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\tab \par
\tab With regard to the Canadian National Transformation, users must obtain a copy of the data from Geomatics Canada or their provincial government.  The coordin
ate conversion system supports both version 1 and version 2.  If a version 2 data file is present, it is used; otherwise version 1 is used if an appropriate data file is present.  If neither data file is present, the US NADCON files will be used for regi
ons where the Canadian and US systems overlap, and a Multiple Regression formula used elsewhere.  Note that the equivalent data files for the US are in the public domain and available on the Internet.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Seven Parameter Transformati
on:  \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 To use the Seven Parameter Transformation, all seven parameters in the lower half of the dialog box must be provided.  Note, that the Bursa/Wolf Transformation accepts the exact same types of parameters, and is very similar to the 
Seven Parameter transformation.  If you are not sure, you may need to convert some test coordinates using both of these techniques to assure that your definition references the correct technique.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 WGS72->WGS84 via DMA formula:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   This selection refers to the World Geodetic System of 1972, and implies conversion by formulas published by the U. S. Defense Mapping Agency in Technical Report 8350.2-B, December 1987.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Three Parameter Transformatio
n: \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 Choose this selection to use the widely used Three Parameter Transformation. To use the Three Parameter, the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta X\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta Y\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta
\~Z\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters will need to be known and provided in the edit fields provided.  The Three Parameter Transformation is very similar to the Molodensky, and the results are quite similar.  However, a different mathematical technique is used
 to achieve the results.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Six Parameter Transformation:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  Choose this selection to use the rarely used Six Parameter Transformation.  The Six Parameter Transformation is essentially the same as the Seven Parameter 
Transformation, except that the scale factor parameter is forced to zero, implying no scaling is to take place.  Naturally, all parameters but the Scale parameter must be specified.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Four Parameter Transformation:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  Choose this selection to use the almost never used Four Parameter Transformation.  The Four Parameter Transformation simply adds a scale factor to the widely used Three Parameter Transformation.  Naturally, the Delta X, Delta\~Y, and Delta Z parameters m
ust be specified in addition to the Scale parameter.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 AGD66 <--> GDA94 via Grid File: \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 This technique is appropriate for data based on the Australian Geodetic Datum of 1966 (AGD66) only.  The algorithm and data fi
les published by ICSM of Australia.  Currently there are separate data files for several Australian states that primarily use AGD66. Be sure that your application has access to the appropriate data files. This technique requires the existence of a Geodet
ic Data Catalog file named Agd66ToGda94.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 AGD84 <--> GDA94 via Grid File: \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 This technique is appropriate for data based on the Australian Geodetic Datum of 1984 (AGD84) only.  The algorithm and data files published by ICSM of Australia.  Currently there are separate data files for several Australian states that primarily use AGD
84. Be sure that your application has access to the appropriate data files. This technique requires the existence of a Geodetic Data Catalog file named Agd84ToGda94.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 NZGD49 <--> NZGD2K via Grid  File:  \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 This technique is appropriate for data based on the New Zealand Geodetic Datum of 1949 (NZGD49) only.  The algorithm and data 
files published by Land Information New Zealand.  Currently there is a single data file for the entire extent of NZGD49.  Be sure that your application has access to the appropriate data files. This technique requires the existence of a Geodetic Data Cat
alog file named Nzdg49ToNzgd2K.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\par
\f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 ATS77 <--> NAD83 via Grid File: \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 This tec
hnique is appropriate for data based on the Average Terrestrial System 1977 (ATS77) only.  The algorithm and data files published by Services New Brunswick.  Currently there is a single data file for the entire extent of ATS77.  Be sure that your applica
tion has access to the appropriate data files. This technique requires the existence of a Geodetic Data Catalog file named Ats77ToNad83.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  
for more information.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Molodensky Parameters:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   When the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Convert to WGS84 Via\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  se
lection is either \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Molodensky\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Bursa/Wolf\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , or \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Seven Parameter\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , you must enter appropriate values in the fields labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 De
lta X\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta Y\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delta Z\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  These values represent the shift of the center of the referenced ellipsoid to the WGS84 ellipsoid in meters.  To be more precise, 
WGS84 three dimensional Cartesian X, Y, and Z coordinates are obtained by adding the shifts provided in this group to the three dimensional Cartesian X, Y, and Z coordinates of the datum being defined.  All values \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 must\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  be in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 meters\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 ; this is the generally accepted convention for such numbers.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Bursa/Wolfe
 Parameters:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   When the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Convert to WGS84 Via\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  selection is set to \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Bursa/Wolfe\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  or \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Seven Parameter\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , you must enter the appropr
iate values in the fields labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rotate X\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rotate Y\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rotate Z\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The rotate values indicate
 the amount of rotation, \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 in seconds of arc\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 , necessary about each of the respective axes to bring the datum being defined into alignment with WGS84.  Similarly, the scale parameter indicates, \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 in parts per million\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 , the scaling necessary to bring the datum being defined into alignment with WGS84.  That is, a minus 1 (-1.0) indicates an actual scaling factor of 0.999999.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('217',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Cat
alog Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 MGRS Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('221',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Ellipsoid Editor}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Ellipsoid Editor; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_ELEDIT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 217; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0039}\keepn \ATXnt217 Ellipsoid Editor\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the Ellipsoid Editor to examine, modify, create, and delete entries in the Ellipsoid Dictionary.  Upon activation, you are presented with a standard Windows dialog box.  Of immediate importance are the four buttons on the bottom of the dial
og box.  These buttons control the operation of the editor and the labels and functions of these buttons change as the state of the editor changes.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Close\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to close the dialog box when finished using it.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 New\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to create a new definition.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Save\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to save changes made to an existing or new d
efinition. New definitions are not actually created until saved.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to cancel all changes made to a definition, or cancel the addition of a new definition.
\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delete\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to delete the currently displayed ellipsoid definition\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Help\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to obtain help on using the editor.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Information concerning the elements of a ellipsoid definition are dis
played in the edit fields described below.  Of course, you use these same fields to modify or create a new definition.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht216 \{bmc eledit.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O216}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 
\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Key Name:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Key name is the unique name assigned to an ellipsoid definition.  This name is what actually appears i
n the definition of a coordinate system definition, or a datum definition, which references this ellipsoid.  This name must uniquely identify the ellipsoid in the dictionary; that is, two ellipsoid definitions cannot have the same key name.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Group:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Currently unused, the group field may be used in future releases of the coordinate conversion system to group ellipsoid definitions into smaller groups for easier selection and use.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Description:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Description carries the official name of the ellipsoid, or a description of its use and purpose.  Descriptions oft
en help resolve ambiguities about the many different ellipsoid definitions available.  The coordinate conversion system does not use the description field in any way other than displaying it at appropriate times.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Source:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Use the source field to record the source of information used to define this ellipsoid.  The coordinate conversion system does not use the description field in any way other than displaying it at appropriate times.
\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Radii:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Use these two fields to enter the equatorial and polar radii of the ellipsoid.  These values are also known as the semi-major axis and the semi-minor axis respectively.  The values \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 must\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  be given in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 meters\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .  You can define a sphere by causing the polar radius to be precisely the same as the equatorial radius.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Calculated Values:\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0   Upon entry of reasonable values for the radii, the ellipsoid editor will calculate the square of the eccentricity and the reciprocal of the flattening and display the calculated results here.  Use these value
s to verify the correct entry/calculation of the radii.  Data cannot be entered into these fields.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 
!AL('215',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 MGRS Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('221',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Geodetic Data Catalog Editor}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Geodetic Data Catalog Edito
r; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GDC}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1219; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0040}\keepn \ATXnt1219 Geodetic Data Catalog Editor\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Geodetic Data Catalogs are ordinary text files.  You can
 use any ordinary text editor, such as Notepad, to edit these files.  The contents of the catalog files are described \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1235 elsewhere\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_GDCCONTENT\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  in this help file.  You may fin
d it more convenient, however, to use the Geodetic Data Catalog Editor.  You may also use the Geodetic Data Catalog Editor to simply examine the contents of a catalog and determine that it is indeed set up in the manner desired.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Please note that the Geodetic Data Catalog was originally designed to support the use of multiple files for a single datum conversion.  Supporting both U. S. and Canadian data files for the NAD27 to NAD83 calculati
on, for example.  (NAD refers to North American Datum.)  The basic concepts of Geodetic Data Catalog files also apply to such things as vertical datum shifts and geoid height calculations.  Thus, while the documentation and labeling are oriented towards 
the horizontal datum shift problem, the same dialog can (and is) used to edit catalogs designed for use with vertical datums and geoid height data sets as well.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Once started, the Geodetic
 Data Catalog Editor will present a dialog which looks something like this:\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\sa240\ATXpt6\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht1217 \{bmc gdcedit.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1217}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the list box labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Catalog Selector\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  at the top of the screen to select the specific catalog you wish to edit or examine.  Once chosen, the central list box of the dialog labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Entry File Names\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  will show a list of the files that are referenced by this catalog.  Note that the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Entry File Names\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  list box only shows the file name and extension.  The full path to t
he file, and the options associated with that file are shown below in the group box labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Selected Entry Details\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The editor also shows the \f6 \fs20 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1222 \ATXnt155 Fallback Datum\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_GDC_FALLBACK\f1 \fs16 \v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 \ATXnt0  assignment if there is one.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the system pointing device to select a specific entry and the details will be up
dated.  Alternatively, use the up and down arrow keys to select an entry in the list box.  To move an entry up or down, use the buttons to the right of the central list box.  To modify the details of an entry, use the buttons to the left, or simply doubl
e click on the specific entry.  See \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1221 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_GDE\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information on the details associated with a catalog entry.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 You can also delete an entry by selecting it and clicking the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Delete this Entry\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button.  Add a new entry to the list by clicking the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Add New Entry\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 
 button.  You will be then be presented with and empty \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1221 Geodetic Data Catalog Entry Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_GDE\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  in which to enter the necessary information.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 You can change the \f6 \fs20 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1222 \ATXnt155 Fallback Datum\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_GDC_FALLBACK\f1 \fs16 \v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 \ATXnt0  specification by simply typing in the name of the d
atum definition to be used as the fallabck.  This entry must, of course, be the key name of a datum definition in the Datum Dictionary.  A \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Browse\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button is provided for your convenience.  Please note that the datum s
elected for a fallback must not be one which depends upon a datum shift grid file or system thereof.  It must be a datum definition which will work regardless of the geographic coordinates presented to it.  Most all datums which are used for fallbacks ar
e of the Seven Parameter variety.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Click the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Cancel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to dismiss the dialog and ignore any changes made to the currently selected catalog file.  
Click \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 OK\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to dismiss the dialog.  In this case, you will be asked to confirm saving any changes which you have made to the currently selected catalog file.  Of course, access to this help file is always available by c
licking the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Help\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definit
ion Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('215',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('217',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 MGRS Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('221',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Coordinate System Test Dialog}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Coordinate System Test Dialog; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_CSTEST}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 219; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ16
8:0041}\keepn \ATXnt219 Coordinate System Test Dialog\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Coordinate System Test\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  dialog was originally developed to provi
de a means for testing newly entered coordinate system definitions.  However, the author has found it useful for all sorts of things.  Generally speaking, the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Coordinate System Test\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  dialog enables one to quickly conv
ert a single coordinate from one coordinate system to another.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht218 \{bmc cstest.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O218}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the upper portion of the dialog to indicate the coordinates that are to be converted and the coordinate system upon which the coordinates are based.  In the lower portion of the dialog, you will need to indicate the coordinate system to which th
e coordinate is to be converted.  Once the required input has been provided, clicking the calculate button will cause the indicated conversion to be performed, and the results displayed in the lower portion of the dialog box.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Next we describe the use/purpose of the several fields in the upper portion of the dialog box, i.e. that portion of the dialog that is enclosed within the group box labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Input\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .
\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Coordinate System Key Name\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Use this field to key in the key name of the coordinate system upon which the sour
ce coordinate is based.  You can use the browse button (the button labeled '\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 B\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 ' immediately to the right of the edit field) to activate the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht262 coordinate system browser\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSBROWSER\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 .  Since there are more than a thousand coordinate system definitions in the dictionary, the browser is often helpful.  For coordinate systems which are commonly used, and the key names are therefore well kno
wn, simply keying in the name is usually the efficient approach.  Note, for state plane coordinates, you can enter the state plane zone number in lieu of the coordinate system key name.  You will need to enter a number with exactly four digits for this f
eature to work.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 SP Zone Codes refer to NAD83\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Check this box to indicate that any state plane code number enter
ed in the Coordinate System Key Name field is to refer to the NAD83 version of the state plane zone.  Note that the official NAD83 version of all state plane zones are in meters rather than feet.  To indicate a NAD83 State Plane coordinate system based o
n, for example, U. S. Survey feet, you will need to use the key name approach.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Description\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The description of 
the currently selected input coordinate system is displayed adjacent to this label.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Datum\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The key name of the datum referenced by the selected input coordinate system is displayed
 adjacent to this label.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Source\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The source of information for the selected input coordinate system definition 
is shown adjacent to this label.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Unit\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The unit upon which the selected source coordinate system is based is shown adjacent to this label.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 X/Easting/Latitude\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Use this field to enter the X coordinate, the Easting, or the Latitude as may be appropriate for the coordinate system of the coordinate to be converted.  When the input coordinate system referred to in 
the Coordinate System Key Name field is that of a cartesian coordinate system, the label on this field will be \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 X/Easting\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The label changes to \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  when the referenced input
 coordinate system is geographic in nature.  In either case, input the appropriate numeric value.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht274 Inputting Numbers\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSATOF\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for information as to how values may b
e formatted.  In this edition, the coordinate conversion system automatically determines the form of the input coordinate and processes it accordingly.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Y/Northing/Longitude\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Use this field to enter the Y coordinate, the Northing, or the Longitude as may be appropriate for the coordinate system of the coordinate to be converted.  When the input coordinate system ref
erred to in the Coordinate System Key Name field is that of a cartesian coordinate system, the label on this field will be \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y/Northing\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The label changes to \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  when the re
ferenced input coordinate system is geographic in nature.  In either case, input the appropriate numeric value.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht274 Inputting Numbers\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSATOF\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for information as to ho
w values may be formatted.  In this edition, the coordinate conversion system automatically determines the form of the input coordinate and processes it accordingly.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Grid Scale\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Following conversion calculation, the Coordinate System Test dialog will display in this field the grid scale factor of the input coordinate system at the indicated location.  This is a cal
culated field, thus user entry is not permitted.  Geographic coordinate systems do not have grid scale factors.  The concept of a single grid scale factor is compatible only with conformal map projections.  For coordinate systems based on non-conformal p
rojections, the Coordinate System Test dialog displays a value representative of scale distortion of the projection in use at the point given.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Convergence Angle\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Following conversion calculation, the Coordinate System Test dialog will display in this field the convergence angle of the input coordinate system at the indicated location.  The convergence angle is the 
difference between true north and the Y axis of the coordinate system, expressed as an azimuth.  This is a calculated field; user entry is not permitted.  The concept of a convergence angle does not apply to a geographic coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Next we describe the use/purpose of the several fields in the lower portion of the dialog box, i.e. that portion of the dialog that is enclosed within the group box labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Result\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 :\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Coordinate System Key Name\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Use this field to key in the key name of the coordinate system to
 which the source coordinate is to be converted.  You can use the browse button (the button labeled '\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 B\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 ' immediately to the right of the edit field) to activate the coordinate system browser.  Since there are mor
e than a thousand coordinate system definitions in the dictionary, the browser is often helpful.  For coordinate systems which are commonly used, and the key names are therefore well known, simply keying in the name is usually the efficient approach.  No
te, for state plane coordinates, you can enter the state plane zone number in lieu of the coordinate system key name.  You will need to enter a number with exactly four digits for this feature to work.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 SP Zone Codes refer to NAD83\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Check this box to indicate that any state plane code number entered in the Coordinate System Key Name field is to refer to the NAD83 ve
rsion of the state plane zone.  Note that the official NAD83 version of all state plane zones are in meters rather than feet.  To indicate a NAD83 State Plane coordinate system based on, for example, U. S. Survey feet, you will need to use the key name a
pproach.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Description\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The description of the currently selected result coordinate system is displayed adjacent to this label.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 D
atum\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The key name of the datum referenced by the selected result coordinate system is displayed adjacent to this label.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Source\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The source of information for 
the selected result coordinate system definition is shown adjacent to this label.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Unit\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The unit upon which the
 selected result coordinate system is based is shown adjacent to this label.\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 X/Easting/Latitude\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The Coordinate System Test dialog will display the X Coordinate, the Easting, or th
e Latitude (as appropriate) of the result in the edit box underneath this label.  This field is for calculated results; user input is not required nor is it permitted.  The results can, however, be cut for pasting in another field, window, or application
.  When the result coordinate system referred to in the Coordinate System Key Name field is that of a cartesian coordinate system, the label on this field will be \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 X/Easting\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The label changes to \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 
Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  when the referenced input coordinate system is geographic in nature.  In the case of a latitude, degrees, minutes, and seconds form is used by default.  Check the decimal degrees box at the bottom of the dialog to obtain values
 in decimal degree form.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Y/Northing/Longitude\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The Coordinate System Test dialog will display the Y Coordinate,
 the Northing, or the Longitude (as appropriate) of the result in the edit box underneath this label.  This field is for calculated results; user input is not required nor is it permitted.  When the result coordinate system referred to in the Coordinate 
System Key Name field is that of a cartesian coordinate system, the label on this field will be \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y/Northing\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The label changes to \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  when the referenced input coordinate s
ystem is geographic in nature.  In the case of a longitude, degrees, minutes, and seconds form is used by default.  Check the decimal degrees box at the bottom of the dialog to obtain values in decimal degree form.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Grid Scale\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Following conversion calculation, the Coordinate System Test dialog will display in this field the grid scale factor of the result coordinat
e system at the calculated location.  Geographic coordinate systems do not have grid scale factors.  The concept of a single grid scale factor is compatible only with conformal map projections.  For coordinate systems based on non-conformal projections, 
the Coordinate System Test dialog displays a value representative of scale distortion of the projection in use at the calculated location.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt13\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Convergence Angle\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Following conversion calculation, the Coordinate System Test dialog will display in this field the convergence angle of the result coordinate system at the calculated location.  The convergence angle is the di
fference between true north and the Y axis of the coordinate system, expressed as an azimuth.  Note that this is a calculated field and user entry is not permitted, and that the concept of a convergence angle does apply to a geographic coordinate system.
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Underneath the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Result\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  group box, lie the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Decimal Degrees,\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 High Precision\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 3D Calculation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  check boxes.  Checking the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Decimal Degrees\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  box will cause all latitude, longitude, and convergence angle output to be made in decimal degree format (rather
 than degrees, minutes, and seconds).  Check the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 High Precision\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  box to have resulting values reported in high precision as opposed to normal precision.  Check the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 3D Calculation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  
box to cause three dimensional datum conversions performed.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition
 Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('215',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('217',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 MGRS Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 
!AL('221',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} MGRS Test Dialog}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} MGRS Test Dialog; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_MGRS_TEST}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 221; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0042}\keepn \ATXnt221 MGRS Test Dialog\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) Test Dialog to convert coordinates from MGRS to UTM/geographic coordinates and vice versa.   While
 originally designed as a means to test the Coordinate Conversion System's implementation of MGRS, it can also be a useful tool when small numbers of coordinates need to be converted.  This dialog will also provide for the proper calculation of UTM zones
, including the polar regions, and the strange stuff which goes on in Northern Europe (i.e. Norway and the Svaldberg Islands).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXht220 \{bmc csmgtest.bmp\}{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O220}\ATXnt0  \ATXht0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The MGRS test dialog is grouped into four sections; programmers use the term group boxes to refer to these sections.  The first group box, labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Ellipsoid\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , shows the descriptive name of the currently selected ellipsoid.  That is, the ellipsoid upon which all of the calculations are to be based.  Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Select\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to choose a different ellipsoid for the ca
lculations.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The remainder of the dialog consists of three different group boxes, one for each of the three different types of coordinates that are manipulated by the test program.  These 
three coordinate types are \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Military Grid Reference System\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  designations, \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Latitude/Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e. geographic coordinates), and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 UTM/UPS\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  coordi
nates with zone number.  (UPS is an acronym for Universal Polar Stereographic, the system that applies to the polar regions.)  Consider each of these three areas as an input area.  Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Military Grid Reference System\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  section to input an MGRS designation.  When input is complete, click the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Enter\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button in that group box to cause the input to be processed and the calculation results displayed in the remaining two boxes.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In a similar manner, you can input data in any of the three group boxes and click the associated \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Enter\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to cause the remaining group boxes to be filled in
 with the correct results.  Thus, a single dialog can be used to convert from any one system to any other.  Please be sure to click the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Enter\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  box associated with the data you just entered.  This is how the program kn
ows which system of coordinates are to be used as input, and what results are to be produced.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Within the MGRS group box, the dialog provides a means by which you can adjust the precision 
of the MGRS designation computed.  This value can range from 0 to a maximum of 5.  Note that, at a precision of 5, the MGRS designation refers to a specific square meter on the surface of the earth.  The resulting geographic and UTM coordinate calculatio
ns are based on the specific point at the center of this square.  A precision of 4 would produce the MGRS designation for a 10 meter by 10 meter square.  Also in the MGRS group box, you will find a check box labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Use Bessel Codes\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The definition of MGRS sugge
sts that an alternative encoding system should be used for certain ellipsoids, specifically the Bessel as used in Western Europe.  Check this box to have the MGRS test dialog use the alternative encoding system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Latitude and Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  group box, you can enter (and the dialog will display results) in the form of latitude and longitude coordinates.  You may enter the coordinates in decimal form, o
r using degrees minutes and seconds form as outlined elsewhere in this Help File/document.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht274 Inputting Numbers\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_CSATOF\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for information as to how values may be forma
tted.    The output format is always in degrees minutes, and seconds form.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 UTM/UPS\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  group box, you may enter UTM or UTM coordinates.  When ente
ring coordinates, be sure to select the proper zone.  Note that \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 North\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 South\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  are included in the zone combo box and should be used to refer to the north and south polar region
s respectively when appropriate.  Of course, the MGRS test dialog will use this area to return to you the results of conversions.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Close\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  butto
n near the bottom of the dialog to close the dialog box when finished using it.  Use the adjacent \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Help\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  button to gain access to this help file.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Definition Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('203',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Datum Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('215',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ellipsoid Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('217',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog Editor\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Test Dialog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('219',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 
\b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Supported Projections}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Supported Projections; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O846}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 846; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0043}\keepn \ATXnt846 Supported Projections\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Currently
, 36 different projections are supported.  Variations to several of these and 2 pseudo projections are also supported.  Points of interest for each of these projections and all variations thereof are given in this section.  New projections are routinely 
added to the product, so be sure to contact your software vendor for the latest information.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The order in which the various projections and their variations are presented is admittedly ha
phazard; mostly to do with the order in which they were implemented.  The index will be useful to locate the particular information you need.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Null Projection, produces/proce
sses Latitude & Longitude\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('847',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Two Standard Parallels
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('848',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, One Standard Parallel\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('849',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Belgian Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('850',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0 
 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic, Wisconsin County Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('851',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic, Minnesota DOT Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('852',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator or Gauss Kruger Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('853',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tr
ansverse Mercator with Affine Post Process\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Universal Transverse Mercator System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('854',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 South Oriented Transverse Mercator\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('855',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator, Wisconsin County Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('856',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator, Minnesota DOT Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('857',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator, ala Snyder\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('858',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Albers Equal Area Conic
 Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('859',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('860',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Alaska Variation of Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('861',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection, Two Point Form\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('862',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Azimuth at Projection Center\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('863',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Skew Azimuth at Rectified Origin\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Origin & Azimuth at Center\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('864',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Two Point Form\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('865',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Mercator Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('866',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('867',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant, Elevated Ellipsoid\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1216',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Azimuthal Equal Area Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('868',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Tangential Conformal Conic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('869',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Hassl
er American Polyconic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('870',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lallemand IMW Modified Polyconic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('871',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Equidistant Conic Projection, a.k.a. Simple Conic\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('872',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Miller Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('873',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Oblique Stereographic Projection, per Snyder (USA)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('874',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Oblique Stereographic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('875',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Polar Stereographic Pro
jection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('876',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Sinusoidal Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('877',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Orthographic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('878',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Gnomonic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('879',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Equidistant Cyli
ndrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('880',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Van Der Grinten Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('881',
1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cassini Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('882',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Modified Stereographic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('883',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Zealand National Grid\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('884',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Robinson Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('885',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bonne Pseudoconical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('886',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number IV\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('887',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number VI\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('888',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Mollweide Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('889',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Goode Homolosine Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('890',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Normal Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('891',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('892',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bipolar Oblique Conformal Conic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('893',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Swiss Oblique Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('894',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Krovak Oblique Con
formal Conic, Czechoslovkia\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1223',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Non-georeferenced (aka non-earth) coordinate system\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1228',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Oblique Cylindrical Projection (Generalized)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (pre-1999)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (1999 vintage)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 1997\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ordnance Survey Nati
onal Grid Transformation of 2002\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx6480\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Null Projection, produces/processes Latitude & Longitude}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Null Projection, produces/processes Latitude & Longitude; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O847}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 847; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0044}\keepn \ATXnt847 Null Projection, produces/processes Latit
ude & Longitude\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is not really a projection in the true sense of the word.  We refer to this as a pseudo projection.  This pseudo projection does very little and
 is a design trick that enables the Coordinate Conversion System to process geographic coordinates in exactly the same manner as any cartesian coordinate.  Thus, the user interface does not require any special provisions in order to handle geographic coo
rdinates.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 An additional benefit of this technique is that definitions of geographic coordinate systems also appear in the Coordinate System Dictionary.  Therefore, each such definition ca
n be, and is, referenced to either a datum or ellipsoid (e.g. LL27, LL83, LL84).  Also, each geographic coordinate system can be, and is, assigned a specific system unit (e.g. degrees, grads, minutes).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection, and therefore all geographic coordinate systems, recognizes the origin longitude field of the coordinate system definition and uses it as the prime meridian for the geographic coordinate system.  Thus, setting the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  field to 2 20' 14.025"E will reference a geographic coordinate system to the Meridian of Paris.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection also accepts two parameters labe
led \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Western End of Longitude Range\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Eastern End of Longitude Range\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  You can use these parameters to define, for example, a geographic coordinate system in which longitudes ar
e reported in the range of 0 through 360.  Leaving these parameters set to zero will cause the Coordinate Conversion System to default the range to the normal -180 (west longitude) through +180 (east longitude).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Two Standard Parallels}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Two Standard Parallels; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O848}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 848; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0045}\keepn \ATXnt848 Lambert Conf
ormal Conic Projection, Two Standard Parallels\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is the basic form of the widely used Lambert Conformal Conic Projection.  In addition to an origin longitude and 
origin latitude, it requires two parameters referred to as Standard Parallels which are used to produce the shrinkage affect which is common in map projection usage.  The Coordinate Conversion System labels these parameters as \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Norther
n Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Southern Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  but the north/south relationship is unimportant.  That is why similar products that perform  coordinate conversion function will usually refer to t
hese as Standard Parallel 1 and Standard Parallel 2.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that the standard parallels can be on opposite sides of the equator, but only if they are not equidistant from the equator.  (If 
the standard parallels were equidistant, the result would be cylindrical, not conic.)\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 By setting the both standard parallel parameters to precisely the same value, you can obtain a single
 parallel variation of this projection.  This result will differ slightly from the variation next described in that the resulting variation can have an origin latitude which is different from that of the standard parallel.  Refer to the distribution coor
dinate system definition for \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 SAMOA\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  for an example of this usage.  Note that this usage precludes the use of the shrinkage affect.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, One Standard Parallel}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, One Standard Parallel; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O849}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 849; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0046}\keepn \ATXnt849 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, One Standard Parallel\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This form of the Lambert is rarely used in North America, but is frequently used elsewhere, especially in Europe.  In this case, the standard parallel and the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  are the same, and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  factor is used to obtain the shrinkage affect.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , as distinct from the standard parallel, has no affect on the magnitude or distribution of projection distortion, the lack of an origin latitude distinct from the standard parallel can be overcome through the use o
f an appropriate value for the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 False Northing\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Belgian Variation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Conforma
l Conic Projection, Belgian Variation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O850}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 850; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0047}\keepn \ATXnt850 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Belgian Variation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This
 is a variation of the Two Standard Parallel version of the Lambert which is used only in Belgium.  Parameter usage is identical to the Two Standard Parallel variation described above.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Conformal Conic, Wisconsin County Variation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Conformal Conic, Wisconsin County Variation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O851}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 851; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0048}\keepn \ATXnt851 Lambert Conformal Conic, Wisconsin County Variation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is a variation of the Two Standard Parallel version of the Lambert Conformal Conic that is used to define coordinate systems for many of the individual counties 
in the state of Wisconsin.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation requires two additional parameters that are used to expand the referenced ellipsoid to account for the average elevation in the subject county.  
The first parameter is the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Geoid Height\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  of the county specified in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 meters\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .  The second parameter is the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Elevation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e.
 elevation above the geoid or orthometric height) of the subject county given in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 system units\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Conformal Con
ic, Minnesota DOT Variation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Conformal Conic, Minnesota DOT Variation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O852}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 852; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0049}\keepn \ATXnt852 Lambert Conformal Conic, Minnesota DOT Variation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is a variation of the Two Standard Parallel version of the Lambert Conformal Conic that is used to define coordinate systems for several of the individual counties in the state of Minnesota.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation requires an additional parameter that is used to expand the referenced ellipsoid to account for the average elevation in the subject county.  This parameter is \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Elevation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e. elevation above the geoid or orthometric height) of the subject county given in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 system units\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Tr
ansverse Mercator or Gauss Kruger Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Transverse Mercator or Gauss Kruger Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O853}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 853; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0050}\keepn \ATXnt853 Transverse Mercator or Gauss Kruger Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is the Coordinate Conversion System's implementation of the ubiquitous Transverse Mercator projection, also known as the Gauss Kruger Projection, or more simply the Gauss projection.  This projection is u
sed world wide and is the projection used in the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) system of coordinate systems.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and an origin longitude.  However, due to historical reasons, the origin longitude is specified as a parameter on the Parameter Page labeled \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .   A \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  factor is also required.  Outside of North America, it is not uncommon for the scale reduction factor to be set to unity (i.e. 1.0), thus essentially disabling this feature.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Transverse Mercator with Affine Post Process}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Transverse Mercator with Affine Post Process; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1227}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1227; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0051}\keepn \ATXnt1227 Transverse Mercator with Affine Post Process\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is yet another variation of the popular \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1226 Transverse Mercator or Gauss Kruger Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O853\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 .  This variation 
includes the application of an affine transformation to the results produced by the normal Transverse Mercator projection calculation.  This variation was added to support local coordinate systems in Sweden.  Perhaps it will be useful elsewhere as well.
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The Affine Transformation is implemented as follows, and is applied to the horizontal cartesian coordinates which result from the normal projection algorithm:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt21\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 X\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 new\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  = A\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 0\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  + A\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 1\f1 \fs16 \i \dn0 \ATXnt7 x\f3 \fs12 \i0 \dn10 \ATXnt127 old\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  + A\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 2\f1 \fs16 \i \dn0 \ATXnt7 y\f3 \fs12 \i0 \dn10 \ATXnt127 old\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt21\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs16 \dn0 Y\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 new\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  = B\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 0\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  + B\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 1\f1 \fs16 \i \dn0 \ATXnt7 x\f3 \fs12 \i0 \dn10 \ATXnt127 old\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  + B\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 2\f1 \fs16 \i \dn0 \ATXnt7 y\f3 \fs12 \i0 \dn10 \ATXnt127 old\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs16 \dn0 As you can see, this implementation supports the use of six parameters, all six of which can be specified by the user.  The six parameters are:\par
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl Parameter\cell
\pard\tx8115\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Parameter Number\cell
\pard\tx7200\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Parameter Name\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt
\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl A0\cell
\pard\tx8610\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 2\cell
\pard\tx6705\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Affine Transformation A0 Coefficient\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth
\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl B0\cell
\pard\tx8115\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 3\cell
\pard\tx7200\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Affine Transformation A0 Coefficient\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl A1\cell
\pard\tx8610\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 4\cell
\pard\tx6705\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Affine Transformation A0 Coefficient\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrs
\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl A2\cell
\pard\tx8115\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 5\cell
\pard\tx7200\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Affine Transformation A0 Coefficient\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb
\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl B1\cell
\pard\tx8610\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 6\cell
\pard\tx6705\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Affine T
ransformation A0 Coefficient\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1380\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2790\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx6060\intbl B2\cell
\pard\tx8115\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 7\cell
\pard\tx7200\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Affine Transformation A0 Coe
fficient\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 Note that in order for the inverse to function properly, the following conditi
on is not allowed:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt21\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 A\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 1\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0 B\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 2\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0  = A\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 2\f1 \fs16 \dn0 \ATXnt0 B\f3 \fs12 \dn10 \ATXnt127 1\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f1 \fs16 \dn0 Also note, that by setting B2 equal to A1, and B1 equal to the complement of A2 one can obtain the Helmert, or Similarity Transformation.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Universal Transverse Mercator System}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Universal Transverse Mercator System; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O854}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 854; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0052}\keepn \ATXnt854 Universal Transverse Mercator System\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This variation is simply an interface to the Transverse Mercator projection described immediately above.   It differs only in that the parameters required are \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 UTM Zone Number\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Hemisphere\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  Given these two simple parameters, this variation will automatically calculate the origin latitude, central meridian, scale reduction, false easting, and false northing parameters as
 appropriate for the indicated UTM zone and the selected units.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 As the value for the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Hemisphere\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter, use a positive value, like 1.0 to indicate
 the northern hemisphere and a negative value, like  -1.0, to indicate the southern hemisphere.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that you will still need to reference the coordinate system definition to the desired 
datum or ellipsoid, and select the desired system unit.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} South Oriented Transverse Mercator}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} South Oriented Transverse Mercator; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O855}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 855; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0053}\keepn \ATXnt855 South Oriented Transverse Mercator\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is the variation of the Transverse Mercator Projection used in South Africa.  The requi
red parameters are the same as the standard Transverse Mercator.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Transverse Mercator, Wisconsin County Variation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Transverse Mercator, Wisconsin County Vari
ation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O856}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 856; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0054}\keepn \ATXnt856 Transverse Mercator, Wisconsin County Variation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is a variation of the standard Transv
erse Mercator that is used to define coordinate systems for several of the individual counties in the state of Wisconsin.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation requires two additional parameters that are used t
o expand the referenced ellipsoid to account for the average elevation in the subject county.  The first parameter is the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Geoid Height\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  of the county specified in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 meters\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .  The second is the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Elevation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e. elevation above the geoid or orthometric height) of the subject county given in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 system units\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Transverse Mercator, Minnesota DOT Variation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Transverse Mercator, Minnesota DOT Variation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O857}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 857; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0055}\keepn \ATXnt857 Transverse Mercator, Minnesota 
DOT Variation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is a variation of the standard Transverse Mercator that is used to define coordinate systems for many of the individual counties in the state of M
innesota.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation requires an additional parameter That is used to expand the referenced ellipsoid to account for the average elevation in the subject county.  This parameter is \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Elevation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e. elevation above the geoid or orthometric height) of the subject county given in \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 system units\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note, this is a rigorous implementation of the Minnesota variation.  The approximations of scale reduction and false easting and northing frequently used in other products should not be used here.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Transverse Mercator, ala Snyder}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Transverse Mercator, ala Snyder; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O858}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 858; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0056}\keepn \ATXnt858 Transverse Mercator, ala Snyder\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is a variation of the standard Transverse Mercator that is based on the formulations published by John Parr Snyder in \i \ATXnt7 Map Projections - A Working Manual\i0 \ATXnt0 .  The developers of the Coord
inate Conversion System used this formulation exclusively in early releases.   The Coordinate Conversion System now includes a newer, faster, more accurate formulation, and makes this new implementation available as its standard Transverse Mercator proje
ction.  However, there remain clients who prefer the comfort of coordinate values which match precisely the values they are used to.  Therefore. the Snyder formulation is preserved as a part of the Coordinate Conversion System's heritage and is assigned 
this particular name.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Parameter usage of this projection is the same as the standard Transverse Mercator described above.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Albers Equal Area Conic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Albers Equal Area Conic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O859}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 859; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0057}\keepn \ATXnt859 Albers Equal Area Conic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 In addition to an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , the Albers Equal Area Projection requires two parameters referred to as Standard Pa
rallels that are used to produce the shrinkage affect which is common in map projection usage.  The Coordinate Conversion System labels these parameters as \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Northern Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Southern 
Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  but the north/south relationship is unimportant.  That is why similar products that perform coordinate conversion will refer to these as Standard Parallel 1 and Standard Parallel 2.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that the standard parallels can be on opposite sides of the equator, but only if they are not equidistant from the equator.  (If the standard parallels were equidistant, the result would be cylindrical, not conic.)\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 By setting the both standard parallel parameters to precisely the same value, you can obtain a single parallel variation of this projection.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection is that which is used by the US Geological Survey to produce 1:2,000,000 Digital Line Graph data files for the 48 conterminous states, Alaska, and Hawaii.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O860}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 860; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0058}\keepn \ATXnt860 Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variations of a class of projections that is often referred to as Oblique Mercator.  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly used, but formulas have also been 
developed by Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas.  All of these formulations produce similar, but not precisely identical, results.  Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the general Oblique Mercator with some
 indication of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Unrectified, in this case, means that the axis of the X coordinate is coincident with the central geodesic of the projection, implying that the axis o
f the Y coordinate is \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  true north as it is with most all other projections.  In the literature, these unrectified axes are usually referred to as the u and v axes respectively.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requires three parameters.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters define the approximate center of t
he region to be mapped, and the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Geodesic Azimuth at Projection Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter defines the azimuth of the central geodesic at the central point in degrees east of north.  The true origin of this projection is at the
 point where "the central geodesic intersects the equator of the 'aposphere,' and is, thus, a rather academic location" (Snyder, p70).  This makes this projection rather difficult to use and we know of no actual use of this projection in its unrectified 
form.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Alaska Variation of Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Alaska Variation of Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O861}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 861; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ16
8:0059}\keepn \ATXnt861 Alaska Variation of Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variations of a class of projections that is often referred 
to as Oblique Mercator.  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly used, but formulas have also been developed by Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas.  All of these formulations produce similar, but not 
precisely identical, results.  Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the general Oblique Mercator with some indication of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation is of the Hotine Oblique Merca
tor is the version published by Snyder and is the projection used for Zone 1 of the Alaska State Plane Coordinate System.  Despite much published information to the contrary, it is not the same as the Rectified Skew Orthomorphic projection used elsewhere
.  We suspect, but do not know for a fact, that this projection is also used for the Great Lakes Survey.  This projection is rectified, thus the Y axis is indeed true north (at the origin anyway).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation requires three parameters.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters define the approximate center of the region to be mapped, and
 the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Geodesic Azimuth at Projection Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter defines the azimuth of the central geodesic at the central point in degrees east of north.  The true origin of this projection is at the point where "the central g
eodesic intersects the equator of the 'aposphere,' and is, thus, a rather academic location" (Snyder, p70).  This makes this projection rather difficult for us mere mortals to create a new coordinate system using it.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection, Two Point Form}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection, Two Point Form; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O862}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 862; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0060}\keepn \ATXnt862 Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection, Two Point Form\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variations of a class of projections that is often referred to as Oblique Mercator.
  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly used, but formulas have also been developed by Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas.  All of these formulations produce similar, but not precisely identical, re
sults. Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the general Oblique Mercator with some indication of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Unrectified, in this case, means that the axis of the X coordinate is
 coincident with the central geodesic of the projection, implying that the axis of the Y coordinate is \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  true north as it is with most all other projections. In the literature, these unrectified axes are usual
ly referred to as the U and V axes respectively.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation differs from the Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator described above only in the manner in which the central geodesic is de
fined.  This variation requires an origin latitude and two points to define the location and orientation of the central geodesic.  The Coordinate Conversion System, perhaps erroneously, uses its \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  param
eter as what is actually the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  That is, the projection center is defined as the point at which the central geodesic crosses the central latitude.  (Just in case your not thoroughly confused already, 
consider that there are two such locations.)\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Again, the true origin of this projection is at the point where "the central geodesic intersects the equator of the 'aposphere,' and is, thus,
 a rather academic location" (Snyder, p70).  This makes this projection rather difficult to use and, fortunately, we know of no actual application of this projection in this form.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Azimuth at Projection Center}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Azimuth at Projection Center; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O863}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 863; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0061}\keepn \ATXnt863 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Azimuth at Projec
tion Center\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variations of a class of projections that is often referred to as Oblique Mercator.  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly us
ed, but formulas have also been developed by Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas. All of these formulations produce similar, but not precisely identical, results.  Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the gen
eral Oblique Mercator with some indication of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This is the formulation/variation of the Oblique Mercator which most widely used (Alaska excepted).  This variation req
uires three parameters.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters define the approximate center of the region to be mapped, and the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 G
eodesic Azimuth at Projection Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter defines the azimuth of the central geodesic at the central point in degrees east of north.  (This is the point given by the first two parameters.)\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The true origin of this projection is at the point where "the central geodesic intersects the equator of the 'aposphere,' and is, thus, a rather academic location" (Snyder, p70).  Thus, neither the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitu
de\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  or \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter are used.  This also makes this projection rather difficult for use when defining a new custom coordinate system, see \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic
, Origin at Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  below.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that another variation of this projection, named \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Skew Azimuth at Rectified Origin\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , supports an azimuth parameter referred to as: \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Skew Azimuth at Projection Origin\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  I t might seem to the casual cartographer that these would be the same; but on an ellipsoid, these numbers are different by 
a small (but significant) amount.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Skew Azimuth at Rectified Origin}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Skew Azimuth at Rectified Orig
in; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1236}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1236; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0062}\keepn \ATXnt1236 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Skew Azimuth at Rectified Origin\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variatio
ns of a class of projections that is often referred to as Oblique Mercator.  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly used, but formulas have also been developed by Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas. 
All of these formulations produce similar, but not precisely identical, results.  Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the general Oblique Mercator with some indication of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This is the formulation/variation of the Oblique Mercator which most widely used (Alaska excepted).  This variation requires three parameters.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Lon
gitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters define the approximate center of the region to be mapped, and the \f3 \fs20 \b \ATXnt156 Skew Azimuth at Rectified Origin\f1 \fs16 \b0 \ATXnt0  parameter defines the azimuth of the central geodesic at the true origin o
f the projection as described below.  This is also the origin of the rectified coordinate system.  This parameter is also referred to as the Skew Azimuth in other applications and books on coordinate conversion.  In any case, this azimuth is given in deg
rees east of north.  That is, use a value greater than 180 or a negative value for an azimuth which is west of north.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The true origin of this projection is at the point where "the central
 geodesic intersects the equator of the 'aposphere,' and is, thus, a rather academic location" (Snyder, p70).  Thus, neither the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  or \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter are
 used.  This also makes this projection rather difficult for use when defining a new custom coordinate system, see \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Origin at Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  below.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that another variation of this projection, named \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Azimuth at Projection Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , supports an azimuth parameter referred to as: \f3 \fs20 \b \ATXnt156 Geodesic Azimuth 
at Projection Center\f1 \fs16 \b0 \ATXnt0 .  It might seem to the casual cartographer that these would be the same; but on an ellipsoid, these numbers are different by a small (but significant) amount.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Null Projection, produces/processes Latitude & Longitude\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('847',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Two Standard Parallels\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('848',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, One Standard Parallel\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('849',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic Projection, Belgian Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('850',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic, Wis
consin County Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('851',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Conformal Conic, Minnesota DOT Variation\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('852',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator or Gauss Kruger Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('853',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator with Affine Post Process\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Universal Transverse Mercator System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('854',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 
South Oriented Transverse Mercator\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('855',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator, Wisconsin County Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('856',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator, Minnesota DOT Variation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('857',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Mercator, ala Snyder\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('858',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Albers Equal Area Conic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('859',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Unrectified 
Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('860',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Alaska Variation of Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('861',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Unrectified Hotine Oblique Mercator Projection, Two Point Form\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 
!AL('862',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Azimuth at Projection Center\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('863',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Origin & Azimuth at Center\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('864',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Two Point Form\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('865',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Mercator Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('866',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('867',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant, Elevated Ellipsoid\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1216',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Azimuthal Equal Area Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('868',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lambert Tangential Conformal Conic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('869',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Hassler American Polyconic Pro
jection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('870',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Lallemand IMW Modified Polyconic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('871',
1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Equidistant Conic Projection, a.k.a. Simple Conic\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('872',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Miller Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('873',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Oblique Stereographic Projection, per Snyder (USA)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('874',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Oblique Stereographic 
Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('875',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Polar Stereographic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('876',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Sinusoidal Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('877',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Orthographic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('878',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Gnomonic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('879',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Equidistant Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('880',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Van Der Grinten Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('881',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Cassini Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('882',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Modified Stereographic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('883',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 New Zealand National Grid\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('884',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Robinson Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('885',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bonne Pseudoconical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('886',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projecti
on, Number IV\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('887',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number VI\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('888',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Mollweide Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('889',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Goode Homolosine Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('890',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Nor
mal Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('891',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Transverse Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Pro
jection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('892',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bipolar Oblique Conformal Conic Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('893',1
)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Swiss Oblique Cylindrical Projection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('894',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1223',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Non-georeferenced (ak
a non-earth) coordinate system\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Oblique Cylindrical Projection (Generalized)\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (pre-1999)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (1999 vintage)\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 1997\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 2002\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Rectif
ied Skew Orthomorphic, Origin & Azimuth at Center}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Origin & Azimuth at Center; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O864}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 864; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0063}\keepn \ATXnt864 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Origin & Azimuth at Center\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variations of a class of projections that is often referred to as Oblique Mercator.  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly used, but formulas have also been d
eveloped by Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas. All of these formulations produce similar, but not precisely identical, results.  Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the general Oblique Mercator with some i
ndication of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 While this formulation of the Oblique Mercator is that which is most widely used, this specific variation has rarely been used in the past.  This variat
ion includes provisions to automatically adjust the origin of the projection to appear to be at the central point defined by the parameters next described.  Thus, this is the preferred Oblique Mercator variation for the definition of new custom coordinat
e systems.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation requires three parameters.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Point Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f3 \fs20 \b \ATXnt156 Central Point Longitude\f1 \fs16 \b0 \ATXnt0  parameters define the approximate center of the region to be mapped, and the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Geodesic Azimuth at Projection Center\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter defines the azimuth of the central geodesic at the central point in degrees east of nort
h.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The azimuth parameter is the azimuth at the projection center, i.e. the point given by the first two parameters. It is \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  what is often call
ed the Skew Azimuth, which is the azimuth of the central geodesic at the rectified origin.  Remember, it is the rather strange origin which makes this specific variation valuable.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Two Point Form}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Two Point Form; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O865}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 865; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0064}\keepn \ATXnt865 Rectified Skew Orthomorphic, Two Point Form\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is one of many variations of a class of projections that is often referred to as Oblique Mercator.  The formulas developed by Hotine are commonly used, but formulas have also been developed by
 Rosenmund and Laborde.  Snyder has also published a variation of Hotine's formulas.  All of these formulations produce similar, but not precisely identical, results.  Thus, it is not uncommon to qualify the general Oblique Mercator with some indication 
of the formulation used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This variation uses two points to define the Central Geodesic and uses the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (erroneously) to specify the cent
ral latitude; the approximate center of the region being mapped being at the point where the central geodesic crosses the central latitude.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Mercator Cylindrica
l Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Mercator Cylindrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O866}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 866; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0065}\keepn \ATXnt866 Mercator Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 In years past, 
this projection has been used to produce the standard schoolroom map of the world.  It remains a popular choice for marine navigation charts as rhumb lines are straight.   This projection uses a default origin latitude of zero (i.e. the equator) and requ
ires that you specify a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e. origin longitude) on the Parameters Page.  Additionally, a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  may be specified to achieve the commonly used shrinkag
e affect.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O867}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 867; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0066}\keepn \ATXnt867 Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Traditional implementations of this projection only require the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  an
d \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 However, the coordinate conversion system's implementation adds an additional parameter that is, perhaps, unique to it
.  You may specify a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y Axis Azimuth\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter to indicate the azimuth of the Y axis of the coordinate system relative to true north.  Specify this value in degrees east of north.  That is, use a positive value for a 
Y axis which is east of true north, and a negative value in the case of a Y axis which is west of true north.  This additional parameter is useful when this projection is used to georeference a local grid system (a.k.a. company coordinate system).  Set t
his value to zero for coordinate systems where the Y axis is coincident with true north.  In this case, this projection produces the same results as any of the more traditional implementations.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant, Elevated Ellipsoid}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant, Elevated Ellipsoid; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1216}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1216; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0067}\keepn \ATXnt1216 Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant, Elevated Ellip
soid\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Traditional implementations of the Lambert Azimuthal Equidistant Projection only require the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters.  However, the coordinate conversion system's implementation of this projection adds two additional parameters that are, perhaps, unique to it.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y Axis Azimuth\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter to indicate the azimuth of the Y axis of the coordinate system relative to true north.  Specify this value in degrees east of north.  That is, use a positive value for a Y a
xis which is east of true north, and a negative value in the case of a Y axis which is west of true north.  This additional parameter is useful when this projection is used to georeference a local grid system (a.k.a. company coordinate system).  Set this
 value to zero for coordinate systems where the Y axis is coincident with true north.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Average Elevation\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter to indicate the average ele
vation of the region covered by the coordinate system.  This value should actually be ellipsoidal height, and is always given in the linlear units of the coordinate system.  That is, if the linear units of the easting and northing (X and Y) values of thi
s coordinate system are in U. S. Survey Feet, than the ellipsoid height must also be given in U. S. Survey Feet.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The Coordinate Conversion System will use this ellipsoid elevation to corr
ect the linear distance (i.e. X's and Y's) to angular distance (i.e. latitudes and longitudes) calculations to account for the elevation of the coordinate system.  This is also an advantage when using this projection to georeference a local grid system (
a.k.a. company coordinate system).  Setting this value to zero will eliminate the effect of this parameter, and result in the traditional calculation of this projection.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Azimuthal Equal Area Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Azimuthal Equal Area Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O868}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 868; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0068}\keepn \ATXnt868 Lambert Azimuthal 
Equal Area Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection requires only the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameters.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 However, the Coordinate Conversion System's implementation adds an additional parameter that is, perhaps, unique to it.  You may specify a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y Axis Azimuth\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter to indicate the azimuth of the Y axis of the coordinate system relative to true north.  Specify this value in degrees east of north.  This additional parameter is useful when this projection is used to georeference a local grid
 system (a.k.a. company coordinate system).  Of course, setting this parameter to zero will produce a coordinate system equivalent to that of the traditional Azimuthal Equal Area.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lambert Tangential Conformal Conic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lambert Tangential Conformal Conic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O869}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 869; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0069}\keepn \ATXnt869 Lambert Tangential Conformal Conic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection is an alternative formulation of the Lambert Conformal Conic, One Standard Parallel variation. The formulation used here is that published by the National Geographic Institute
 of France and may produce slightly more precise results at the expense of calculation speed.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (which also
 serves as the single standard parallel), an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction Factor\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Hassler American Polyconic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Hassler American Polyconic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O870}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 870; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0070}\keepn \ATXnt870 Hassler American Polyconic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is the Polyconic Projection developed by Ferdinand Rudolph Hassler for use in mapping North America.  It is significantly different from the Modified Polyconic developed by Lallemand for the production of the Internationa
l Map of the World.  So much different, that we would \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  call either one a variation, or alternate formulation, of the other.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection r
equires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  which serves as an origin longitude.  For historical reasons, and perhaps erroneously, the Coordinate Conversion System presents
 the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  as a parameter on the Parameter Page and disables the origin longitude field.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lallemand IMW Modifie
d Polyconic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Lallemand IMW Modified Polyconic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O871}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 871; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0071}\keepn \ATXnt871 Lallemand IMW Modified Polyconic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is the Polyconic Projection developed by Lallemand for the production of the International Map of the World.  It is significantly different from the Hassler American Polyconic developed by Ferdinand Rudolph Hassler for use in mappin
g North America.  So much different, that we would \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  call either one a variation, or alternate formulation, of the other.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requ
ires four parameters all of which are specified on the Parameter page. The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  defines the origin longitude.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Eastern Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter defines a meridian of tr
ue scale some distance to the east of the central meridian and implies an equivalent true scale meridian the same distance to the west of the central meridian.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Northern Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Southern 
Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  define the north south extents of the map.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Unlike most other projections, the Lallemand Modified Polyconic runs into serious mathematical trouble when processin
g coordinates significantly outside the region intended to be mapped.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Equidistant Conic Projection, a.k.a. Simple Conic}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Equidistant Conic Projection, a.k.a
. Simple Conic; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O872}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 872; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0072}\keepn \ATXnt872 Equidistant Conic Projection, a.k.a. Simple Conic\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and two parameters referred to as Standard Parallels which are used to produce the shrinkage affect which is common in map projection usage.  The
 Coordinate Conversion System labels these parameters as \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Northern Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Southern Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  but the north/south relationship is unimportant.  That is why s
imilar products that perform coordinate conversion will usually refer to these as Standard Parallel 1 and Standard Parallel 2.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that the standard parallels can be on opposite sides of
 the equator, but only if they are not equidistant from the equator.  (If the standard parallels were equidistant, the result would be cylindrical, not conic.)\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 By setting the both standar
d parallel parameters to precisely the same value, you can obtain a single parallel variation of this projection.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Miller Cylindrical Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Miller Cyli
ndrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O873}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 873; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0073}\keepn \ATXnt873 Miller Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection has become a popular alternativ
e to the Mercator for making the standard school room map of the world.  It presumes an origin latitude of the equator.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Meridian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter must be used to specify the origin longitude.  Again, this can b
e considered erroneous and is a historical artifact of the Coordinate Conversion System's development over the years.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Oblique Stereographic Projection, per Sny
der (USA)}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Oblique Stereographic Projection, per Snyder (USA); }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O874}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 874; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0074}\keepn \ATXnt874 Oblique Stereographic Projection, per Snyder (USA)\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 There are two formulations of the Oblique Stereographic.  This formulation was developed by Snyder and has been supported by the Coordinate Conversion System for many years now.  However, it is not the formulation commonly used in Europ
e and other regions.  Which formulation is better has been the topic of many interesting discussions.  In general, use this formulation to match results produced by previous versions of any product that uses the Coordinate Conversion System.  Use the for
mulation next described to achieve the results expected in the Netherlands, New Brunswick, and elsewhere.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 
, and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction Factor\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The Coordinate Conversion System's implementation of this
 projection adds an additional parameter that is, perhaps, unique to it.  You may specify a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Y Axis Azimuth\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter to indicate the azimuth of the Y axis of the coordinate system relative to true north.  Specify thi
s value in degrees east of north.  This additional parameter is useful when this projection is used to georeference a local grid system (a.k.a. company coordinate system).  Of course, setting this parameter to zero will produce a coordinate system equiva
lent to that of the traditional Stereographic ala Snyder.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Oblique Stereographic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Oblique Stereographic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O875}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 875; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0075}\keepn \ATXnt875 Oblique Stereographic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This formulation of the Oblique Stereographic is that which is commonly used outside of the U. S
., specifically in the Netherlands, Romania, and New Brunswick, Canada.  We have seen references to this formulation as the RD Stereographic and Double Stereographic as well.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This project
ion requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction Factor\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Polar Stereographic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Polar Stereographic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O876}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 876; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0076}\keepn \ATXnt876 Polar Stereographic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 For the Polar aspect of the Stereographic, we know of only one formulation.  For this specific aspect, this formulation is the same as that supported by previous releases of the Coordinate Conversion System.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction Factor\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  Of course, the origin latitude must be either +90 degrees or -90 degrees.  Any other value will produce an error condition.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Sinusoidal Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Sinusoidal Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O877}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 877; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0077}\keepn \ATXnt877 Sinusoidal Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection is often used to map large regions 
of the earth, often in interrupted form.  Currently, the Coordinate Conversion System does not support the interrupted form of this projection, but such support is expected soon.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This pro
jection presumes an origin latitude of the equator and requires that you specify the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  which will become the center of any map based on the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Orthographic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Orthographic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O878}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 878; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0078}\keepn \ATXnt878 Orthographic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection produces globe like maps of a single hemisphere.  The Coordinate Conversion System supports polar, equatorial, and oblique aspects of this projection.  It requires specification of an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographica
lly referenced directly to an ellipsoid.  If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Gnomonic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Gnomonic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O879}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 879; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0079}\keepn \ATXnt879 Gnomonic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection produces globe like maps of a single hemisphere.  The Coordinate Conversion System supports polar, equatorial, and oblique aspects of this projection.  It requires specification of an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly to a
n ellipsoid.  If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Equidistant Cylindrical Proj
ection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Equidistant Cylindrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O880}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 880; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0080}\keepn \ATXnt880 Equidistant Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection
 is the simplest of all projections.  It requires the specification of an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Setting the origin latitude and standard parallel values to zero has the effect of creating the equivalent of the Platte Carr\'e9e projection.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly to an ellipsoid.  If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatoria
l radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.  When used to obtain the Platte Carr\'e9e variation, a sphere with a radius of 57.29577951 (i.e. one radian expressed in degrees) is often used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Van Der Grinten Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Van Der Grinten Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O881}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 881; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0081}\keepn \ATXnt881 Van Der Grinten Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is yet another projection used to produce the traditional schoolroom map of the world.  It presumes an origin latitude of zero and requires that you provide an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  which be
comes the center of maps produced using the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly 
to an ellipsoid.  If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Cassini Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Cassini Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O882}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 882; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0082}\keepn \ATXnt882 Cassini Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Also known as 
the Cassini-Soldner, this projection is the forerunner of the Transverse Mercator and shares many of its properties.  It has been in use in Europe for some hundreds of years.  Unlike the Transverse Mercator, this projection is not truly conformal and, th
erefore, the Transverse Mercator is now preferred over the Cassini.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Central Mer
idian\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  (i.e. origin longitude).  Unlike the Transverse Mercator, it does \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  use a scale reduction factor.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Modified Stereographic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Modified Stereographic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O883}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 883; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0083}\keepn \ATXnt883 Modified Stereographic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection is the result of serious map projection research by Miller, Laborde, Lee, Snyder, and others over a period of many years.  The projection is actually what is often referred to as a double projection.  The geographic coordina
tes are first projected on to a plane using a basic Stereographic formulation, and then further manipulated by sophisticated mathematics to achieve a specific objective, such as a minimum error map for a confined region.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Thus, the Stereographic portion of all this requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  The mathemagical part requires a list of as many as
 24 coefficients that are specified on the Parameter Pages of the Coordinate System Editor.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} New Zealand National Grid}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} New Zealand National Grid; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O884}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 884; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0084}\keepn \ATXnt884 New Zealand National Grid\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The New Zealand National Grid is another example of the implementation of the techn
iques described immediately above for the Modified Stereographic, but in this case the standard Mercator projection was used as the base projection.  In this case, however, the coefficients have been hard coded into the Coordinate Conversion System, leav
ing only the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  as parameters.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 It is highly unlikely that this projection wou
ld ever be used for any geography other than New Zealand, so why the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  were not hard coded into the Coordinate Conversion System as well is a v
ery good question.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Robinson Cylindrical Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Robinson Cylindrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O885}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 885; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0085}\keepn \ATXnt885 Rob
inson Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Robinson is another of several projections developed for the purpose of mapping the entire world.  Like most other projections devel
oped for this purpose, it presumes an origin latitude of zero and requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter which specifies the center of any map produced with the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly to an ellipsoid.  If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion Sys
tem will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Bonne Pseudoconical Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Bonne Pseudoconical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O886}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 886; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0086}\keepn \ATXnt886 Bonne Pseudoconical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 . As usual, the origin longitude specifies the center of any map produced using the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Interestingly, 
when the origin latitude is set to zero, the result is identical to the Sinusoidal Projection.  When the origin latitude is set to either pole, the result is also known as the Werner Projection.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number IV}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number IV; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O887}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 887; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0087}\keepn \ATXnt887 Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number IV\ATXnt0 
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Ekert IV (there were six altogether) is another of several projections developed for the purpose of mapping the entire world.  Like most other projections developed for t
his purpose, it presumes an origin latitude of zero and requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter which specifies the center of any map produced with the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly to an ellipsoid. If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will us
e the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number VI}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Num
ber VI; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O888}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 888; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0088}\keepn \ATXnt888 Ekert Pseudocylindrical Projection, Number VI\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Ekert VI (the last of the series) is an
other of several projections developed for the purpose of mapping the entire world.  Like most other projections developed for this purpose, it presumes an origin latitude of zero and requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  par
ameter which specifies the center of any map produced with the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically r
eferenced directly to an ellipsoid. If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Mollweide Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Mollweide Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O889}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 889; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0089}\keepn \ATXnt889 Mollweide Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Mollweide, also known as the Homolographic, is another of several projections developed for the purpose of mapping the entire world, often in interrupted form.  Currently, the Coordinate Conversion system does not support the interrupted form
 of this projection, but such support is expected soon.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection presumes an origin latitude of the equator and requires that you specify the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  which will become the center of any map based on the resulting coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographica
lly referenced directly to an ellipsoid. If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Goode Homolosine Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Goode Homolosine Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O890}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 890; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0090}\keepn \ATXnt890 Goode Homolosine Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Goode Homolosine is another of several projections developed for the purpose of mapping the entire world, often in interrupted form.  It actually consists of using the Sinusoidal between latitudes of 40 South to 40 N
orth (approximately) and the Mollweide (a.k.a. Homolographic) for the remainder of the earth.  Currently, the Coordinate Conversion System does not support the interrupted form of this projection, but such support is expected soon.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection presumes an origin latitude of the equator and requires that you specify the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  which will become the center of any map based on the resulting 
coordinate system.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly to an ellipsoid. If referenced to an ellipsoid (rather
 than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Normal Aspect, Equal Area Cylind
rical Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Normal Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O891}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 891; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0091}\keepn \ATXnt891 Normal Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Normal Aspect, i.e. equatorial aspect, of the Equal Area Cylindrical can be considered to be the equal area version of the conformal Mercator Projection.  Like the Mercator, it presumes an origin latitude of zero, requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and uses a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Standard Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  to achieve the shrinkage affect.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Transver
se Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Transverse Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O892}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 892; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0092}\keepn \ATXnt892 Transverse Aspect, Equal Area Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Transverse Aspect of the Equal Area Cylindrical can be considered to be the equal area version of the conformal Transverse Mercator Projection.  Like the Transverse Mercator, it requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 , and a \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction Factor\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  Since this projection is relatively new to the Coordinate Conversion System,
 the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter is used rather than a Central Meridian parameter to define the center of the projection.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} 
Bipolar Oblique Conformal Conic Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Bipolar Oblique Conformal Conic Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O893}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 893; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0093}\keepn \ATXnt893 Bipolar Oblique Conformal Conic Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Bipolar Oblique Conformal Conic is a projection invented for a single mapping project.  As such, one can legitimately question why the parameters were not simply hard coded into the Coordinate Conversion System.  In
 any case, it is unlikely that the projection would be used for any other purpose and our discussion will be quite vague.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection was developed specifically to map the Western Hem
isphere, i.e. North and South America on a single map.  It essentially consists of two oblique conic projections joined along a specific line.  The parameters define the location of the apex of the two cones, and the angular distance from each apex to th
e standard parallels for each cone.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this projection is implemented only for the sphere, and is usually cartographically referenced directly to an ellipsoid.  If referenced to an
 ellipsoid (rather than a sphere), the Coordinate Conversion System will use the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid as the radius of the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Swiss Oblique 
Cylindrical Projection}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Swiss Oblique Cylindrical Projection; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O894}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 894; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0094}\keepn \ATXnt894 Swiss Oblique Cylindrical Projection\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Surprise, surprise!!!  This projection is used in Switzerland.  It is, essentially, another formulation of the Oblique Mercator problem, where the central geodesic is defined such that it passes through the origin and achieves its maximum latitude at 
that point.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The projection requires an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and an \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .  It does not use a scale reduct
ion factor.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1223}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1223; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0095}\keepn \ATXnt1223 Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is an implementation of the obliaue conic concept as developed by Krovak for the mapping of Cze
choslovokia.  This implementation uses the double projection technique where the ellipsoid is first projected onto a gaussian sphere,  the sphere is then treated as an oblique sphere, and the oblique sphere is then projected onto a cone using the Lambert
 Conformal Conic Single Parallel (with scale reduction) technique.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Users must specify most of the standard paratemeters.  The \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and th
e \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  must be specified and determine the origin of the projection.  Note that the  \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  is the latitude at which the radius of the gaussian sphere is dete
rmined.  A \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  may be specified, the value of 0.9999 was used by Krovak to map Czechoslovokia.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Users must also specify the Oblique Pole L
ongitude and the Oblique Pole Latitude.  These values indicate the location on the spherical earth of the north pole of the oblique sphere of the projection.  Finally, the Oblique COne STandard Parallel must be given, it being the latitude on the oblique
 sphere at which the projection cone is tangent to the sphere.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia;
 }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1225}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1225; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0096}\keepn \ATXnt1225 Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic, Czechoslovkia\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is a variation of the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1224 Krovak Oblique Conformal Conic\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O1223\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  projection as developed by Krovak for mapping Czechoslovokia.  This variation adds the 1995 affine adjustment to the calculcated cartesian coordinates consistent. 
 The parameters for the adjustment are hard coded into the system and cannot be changed by the user.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Non-georeferenced (aka non-earth) coordinate system}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Non-georeferenced (aka non-earth) coordinate system; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1228}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1228; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0097}\keepn \ATXnt1228 Non-georeferenced (aka non-earth) coordinate system\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is the second of the pseudo projections.  Not a projection in the real sense, it is another trick on t
he system so that non-georeferenced coordinates can be processed by the system, with minial changes made.  In particular, this trick enables the system to process coordinates which are not georeferenced but yet apply a units conversion to them, as well a
s a translation.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This coordinate system is special in yet another way in that since the coordinates are not georeferenced, you cannot convert these coordinates to anyother georeferenced s
ystem.  You can only convert these coordinates to another coordinate system based on this pseudoprojection.  In this "pseudo conversion", the process operates as follows:\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb60\ATXpt17\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXnt-1 
1.\tab \ATXnt0 The false easting and false northing specified in the source coordinate system definition are subtracted from the the source coordinates.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb60\ATXpt17\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \ATXnt-1 2.\tab \ATXnt0 The
 appropriate unit scaling, as determined by the source coordinate system units and the target coordinate system units, is applied.\par
\ATXnt-1 3.\tab \ATXnt0 The false easting and false northing specified in the target coodinate system definition are a
dded to the values to arrive at the converted result.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection only requires two prarameters in addition to the linear units specification.  These are the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 F
alse Easting\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 False Northing\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that if this projection is used inappropriately the results will usually be very very small n
umbers.  This is the trick the coordinate conversion system uses to insure that this projection is not used inappropriately without the user being aware of it.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Oblique Cylindrical Projection (Generalized)}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Oblique Cylindrical Projection (Generalized); }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1229}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1229; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0098}\keepn \ATXnt1229 Oblique Cylindrical Projection (Generalized)\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This projection is used in Hungary and elswhere (Romania?).  It is essentially a double projection implementation to to achieve the effect of an Oblique Cylindrical projection.  That is, the ellipsoid is first
 projected onto a gaussian sphere.  The pole of the gaussian sphere is then adjusted, and the oblique spherical result projected on to cylinder using the traditional Mercator algorithm.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 T
his is the general case of the Oblique Cylindrical used in Switzerland, this variation accepting two additional parameters.  Use the traditional \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Latitude \f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 parameters to define the projection origin in the traditional manner.  These parameters also defin the degree of obliqueness as the oblique sphere is such that its equator passes through the projection origin, and its prime meridian is made coincident 
with the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Origin Longitude\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0 .   Use the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Normal Parallel\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter to specify the latitude of the ellipsoid at which is the radius of the gaussian sphere is determined.  A \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  may also be specified, and it is implemented in the traditional Mercator manner.  That is, the \f6 \fs20 \ATXnt155 Scale Reduction\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  parameter could also be called the Scale of the Central Meridia
n.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (pre-1999)}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (pre-1999); }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1230}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1230; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0099}\keepn \ATXnt1230 Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (pre-1999)\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 As its name implies, this projection is specialized for use in Denmark. This projection is yet another var
iation of the Transverse Mercator projection.  Essentially, the projection consists of a base UTM (zones 32 & 33) calculation, and then application of a high order (11th degree) polynomial to adjust the resulting UTM coordinates to produce the final resu
lt.  The coefficients of the polynomials are hard coded.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection accepts a single parameter which is the zone.  While the Danes would probably prefer to indicate the zone by name,
 or at worst a letter, parameters to projections supported by the coordinate conversion system must be numeric.  Therefore, the single parameter, Danish 34/45 Region, must be either 1, 2, or 3 as indicated in the following table.\par
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr
\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Zone Name\cell
\pard\tx7545\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Zone Letter\cell
\pard\tx7185\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Zone Number\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Jylland
\cell
\pard\tx8040\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl J\cell
\pard\tx6690\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 1\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt
\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Sj\'e6lland\cell
\pard\tx7545\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl S\cell
\pard\tx7185\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 2\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Bornholm\cell
\pard\tx8040\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl B\cell
\pard\tx6690\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 3\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note, that the polynomials coded for this projection use values used prior to the 1999 recalculation of the polynomials.  Ye
t another variation of this projection has been implemented which uses the newer, 1999 polynomials values.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (1999 vintage)}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (1999 vintage); }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1231}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1231; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0100}\keepn \ATXnt1231 Danish System 34, UTM + polynomials (1999 vintage)\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 As its name implies, this projection is specialized for use in Denmark. This projection is yet another variation of the Transverse Mercator projection.  Essentially, the pr
ojection consists of a base UTM (zones 32 & 33) calculation, and then application of a high order (13th degree) polynomial to adjust the resulting UTM coordinates to produce the final result.  The coefficients of the polynomials are hard coded.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection accepts a single parameter which is the zone.  While the Danes would probably prefer to indicate the zone by name, or at worst a letter, parameters to projections supported by the co
ordinate conversion system must be numeric.  Therefore, the single parameter, Danish 34/45 Region, must be either 1, 2, or 3 as indicated in the following table.\par
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105
\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrth\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Zone Name\cell
\pard\tx8040\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Zone Letter\cell
\pard\tx6690\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl Zone Number\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl
\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Jylland\cell
\pard\tx7545\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl J\cell
\pard\tx7185\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 1\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Sj\'e6lland\cell
\pard\tx8040\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl S\cell
\pard\tx6690\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 2\cell\row\pard
\pard\tx9885\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft105\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrth\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1950\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2805\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrth
\clbrdrr\brdrth\cellx3795\intbl Bornholm\cell
\pard\tx7545\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl B\cell
\pard\tx7185\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt25\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 3\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note, that the polynomials coded for this projection use values determined in 1999 and supercede the 11th order polynomials used previously.  Yet another variation of this projection has been implemented which uses the older, pre-1999 polynomi
als values.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 1997}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Ordnance Survey 
National Grid Transformation of 1997; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1232}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1232; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0101}\keepn \ATXnt1232 Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 1997\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Yet
 another variation of the Transverse Mercator projection, this variation adds the X and Y data shifts as determined by the OSTN97 (Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 1997 [sic])  calculation and grid file.  Thus, this projection should only 
be used to convert ETRF89 geographic coordinates to OSGB coordinates.  The intent (I believe) is to continoue using OSGB36 coordinates, even though surveyors will be capturing/calculating EFTR89 geographic coordinates.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note, that this variation converts from ETRF89 geographic coordinates to OSGB36 coordinates using the OSTN97 algorithm and data file.  Another variation exists which performs the same function, but uses the OSTN02 algorithm 
and data file.  The two produce similar, but not prcisely the same, results\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection takes no parameters as the standard OSGB parameters are hard coded into the projection.  Note t
hat any attempted use of this projection while the OSTN97.TXT file is not installed in the main coordinate conversion system data directory will fail.  The file must have this exact name (and case on case sensitive operating systems).  The file must exis
ts in the same directory as the basic \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht265 dictionary files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DATADIR_DLG\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Ordnance
 Survey National Grid Transformation of 2002}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 2002; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1233}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1233; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0102}\keepn \ATXnt1233 Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 2002\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Yet another variation of the Transverse Mercator projection, this variation adds the X and Y data shifts as determined by the OSTN02 (Ordnance Survey National Grid Transformation of 2002 [sic]) 
 calculation and grid file.  Thus, this projection should only be used to convert ETRF89 geographic coordinates to OSGB coordinates.  The intent (I believe) is to continoue using OSGB36 coordinates, even though surveyors will be capturing/calculating EFT
R89 geographic coordinates.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note, that this variation converts from ETRF89 geographic coordinates to OSGB36 coordinates using the OSTN02 algorithm and data file.  Another variation exists
 which performs the same function, but uses the OSTN97 algorithm and data file.  The two produce similar, but not prcisely the same, results\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This projection takes no parameters as the sta
ndard OSGB parameters are hard coded into the projection.  Note that any attempted use of this projection while the OSTN02.TXT file is not installed in the main coordinate conversion system data directory will fail.  The file must have this exact name (a
nd case on case sensitive operating systems).  The file must exists in the same directory as the basic \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht265 dictionary files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 csHLPID_DATADIR_DLG\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\li0\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Geodetic Reference}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Geodetic Reference; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GEOREF}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 225; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0103}\keepn \ATXnt225 Geodetic Reference\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 In this section the nature and use of the geodetic transformation techniques supported by the coordinate conversion system are reviewed.  This information is rather technical in nature and is intended for those with some exper
ience in using geodetic transformation techniques.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In all cases, user defined geodetic transformations are a mathematical processes by which geographic coordinates can be converted from t
he datum being defined to WGS84.  While there are exceptions to the rule, most all datum definitions are of this form.  The algorithms implemented in this product require that datum definitions be given in this form.  While it is know that there are a fe
w particular datums where "passing through WGS84" is undesirable, an alternative to this general concept is not available at this time.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The following sections describe the geodetic transf
ormation methods made available by the coordinate conversion system.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b In This Section \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transform
ation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Requ
ired\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter
 Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',
1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('2
41',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0
 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Overview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Inter
active Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx6480\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_BURSA}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 227; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0104}\keepn \ATXnt227 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transf
ormation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This transformation is actually an approximation of The Seven Parameter Transformation that has been traditionally used for geodetic transformation.  This a
pproximation has been used for many years, and is the transformation most often documented in less rigorous geodetic documentation.  The approximation is very good as long as the three rotation angles are rather small, on the order of two or three second
s of arc.  When rotation angles exceed these values, the results begin to strain normally expected levels of accuracy.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The approximation referred to above is arrived at by making three as
sumptions: 1) the sine of a small angle is equal to the angle (in radians) itself; 2) the multiplication of two sine terms is zero; and the cosine of a small angle is one.  As you can see, this approximation is valid only for small angles.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In all other aspects, this transformation is the same as the Seven Parameter transformation.  In processing new data projects, use the Seven Parameter transformation in lieu of the Bursa/Wolf.  The Bursa
/Wolf approximation is provided for purpose of providing the means to reproduce numbers/calculations that were originally accomplished using the approximation.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Pleas
e note\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  that the terminology used here is specific to the coordinate conversion system in this product.  That is, the use of the term Bursa/Wolf to refer to the approximate Seven Parameter Transformation (rather than the rigorous Seve
n Parameter Transformation described above) is not generally accepted in the industry.  The author of this manual is not aware of generally accepted terminology to distinguish between these two similar, but different, transformations.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('23
0',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 I
s NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('2
37',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Paramet
er Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Seven Parameter Transformation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Seven Parameter Transformation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_7PARM}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 226; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0105}\keepn \ATXnt226 Seven Parameter Transformation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This transformatio
n is a rigorous implementation of the standard three dimensional transformation.  Obviously, it gets its name from the number of parameters that are required.  As indicated above, the provided parameters must indicate the transformation to convert local 
datum coordinates to WGS84 coordinates.  For many typical GIS applications, you can simply change the sign of each of the seven parameters to effect an inverse.  However, this technique is not exact.  For precise results, a rigorous inversion is necessar
y in order to determine the appropriate parameters.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Essentially, this transformation proceeds in three phases.  First, the geographic coordinates are converted to three dimensional Cartes
ian, geocentric coordinates using the ellipsoid of the original datum.  Second, the three dimensional transformation defined by the seven parameters is applied producing a modified set of geocentric Cartesian coordinates.  Third, the resulting geocentric
 coordinates are converted back to geographic form using the WGS84 ellipsoid.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The seven parameters are:\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Delta X\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : the amount the intermediary geocentric X coordinate is translated.  This value must be given in meters and the direction of the translation is given by the sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Delta Y\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : the amount the intermediary geocentric Y coordinate is translated.  This value must be given in meters and the direction of the translation is given by the sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Delta Z\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : the amount the intermediary geocentric Z coordinate is translated.  This value must be given in meters and the direction of the translation is g
iven by the sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 X Rotation\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : the amount of rotation about the X axis which is applied to the intermediary geocentric coordinates. 
 This value is given in seconds of arc, and the direction of the rotation is indicated by the sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Y Rotation\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : the amount of rotat
ion about the Y axis which is applied to the intermediary geocentric coordinates.  This value is given in seconds of arc, and the direction of the rotation is indicated by the sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Z Rotation\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : the amount of rotation about the Z axis which is applied to the intermediary geocentric coordinates.  This value is given in seconds of arc, and the direction of the rotation is indicated by th
e sign of the value.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Scale\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0 : a scale factor that is applied to the intermediary geocentric coordinates.  The value is given as a value in parts p
er million and is the difference of the actual scale factor and unity.  For example, a value for the scale parameter of \endash 2.5 produces an actual scale factor of 0.9999985.  That is, the actual scale factor used is arrived at by multiplying the para
meter value by 1.0x10\f3 \fs12 \up10 \ATXnt128 -06\f1 \fs16 \up0 \ATXnt0  and adding the result (algebraically) to 1.0.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transf
ormation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('23
3',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid F
ile\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Gri
d File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Three Parameter Transformation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Three Parameter Transformation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_3PARM}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 228; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0106}\keepn \ATXnt228 Three Parameter Transformation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Naturally, this transformation requires three parameters.  Effectively, use of this transformation will produce the same results
 as the Seven Parameter Transformation with all three rotation parameters and the scale parameter set to zero.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 As with the Seven Parameter Transformation, this transformation proceeds in 
three phases.  First, the geographic coordinates are converted to three dimensional Cartesian, geocentric coordinates using the ellipsoid of the original datum.  Second, the three translation parameters, Delta X, Delta Y, and Delta Z, are used to transla
te the geocentric coordinates.  Third, the resulting geocentric coordinates are converted back to geographic form using the WGS84 ellipsoid.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 As in all other cases for the translation para
meters, the three parameters must be given in units of meters.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL(
'227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Reg
ression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Re
quired\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242'
,1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL
('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b 
\page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Molodensky}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Molodensky; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_MOLO}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 229; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0107}\keepn \ATXnt229 Molodensky\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This transformation is the DMA (US 
Defense Mapping Agency, aka NIMA) implementation of the Molodensky transformation.  (The formulas used were extracted from Defense Mapping Agency Technical Report 8350.2-B, 1 December 1987.)  Effectively, it is variation of the Three Parameter Transforma
tion that produces very similar results and can be calculated without iteration.  Most importantly, the parameter use for this transformation is the same as the Three Parameter Transformation described immediately above.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four 
Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1
)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to
 GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Multiple Regression}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Multiple Regression; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_MREG}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 230; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0108}\keepn \ATXnt230 Multiple Regression\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This transformation is based on the series 
of Multiple Regression developments published by the US Defense Mapping Agency (now known as NIMA) in Technical Report 8350.2-B, December 1987.  Essentially, these are formulas developed from applying linear regression techniques to a varying number of p
oints where the local coordinates and WGS84 coordinates are rather precisely known.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 These regression formulas are based on normalized input coordinates.  It is assumed that the normalized
 coordinates define the useful range of the datum transformation.  In theory, therefore, a geographic coordinate which produces a normalized coordinate greater than 1.0 or less than \endash 1.0 would normally be considered to be outside the useful range 
of the transformation.  In this implementation of the regression technique, a geographic coordinate is considered to be outside the useful range of a transformation if the absolute value of either normalized coordinate exceeds 1.4.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In the event that a coordinate is given which is outside of the useful range of the multiple regression formula as described above, a fallback technique is used to calculate a datum shift.  In this case, the fal
lback technique is the Molodensky, the Six Parameter Transformation, or the Seven Parameter Transformation depending upon how many parameters have been defined in the base definition.  That is, when defining the datum definition, temporarily set the tech
nique specification to Seven Parameter and set the desired fallback parameters.  Then, the technique can be set back to the Multiple Regression selection and the parameters values will be preserved.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Currently, the parameters to such a transformation consist of a preprocessed .MRT file.  These files contain all of the coefficients of the multiple regression formula in a compact form.  This form also facilitates the actual testing of each pa
rameter file individually as the DMA provided test case is included in the file.  Currently, no provisions are made for users to implement their own multiple regression parameter files.  This may change in the future.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('2
29',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 
Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parame
ter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Is NAD83, No Shift Required}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Is NAD83, No Shift Required; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_NAD83}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 234; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0109}\keepn \ATXnt234 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 For practical GIS applicat
ions, there is no difference between NAD83 and WGS84.  Both are very precise measurements of the same thing, and what differences there are between the two are largely due to how the statistical noise was handled.  Also, there are no published techniques
 or generally accepted means of converting from NAD83 to WGS84.  The end result of all this is that this transformation currently does nothing.  If, in the future, a generally accepted means of converting from NAD83 to WGS84 becomes available, the transf
ormation will be modified to implement that technique.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transform
ation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL(
'232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GD
A94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via G
rid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Is GDA94, No Shift Required}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Is GDA94, No Shift Required; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_GDA94}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 235; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0110}\keepn \ATXnt235 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 At the current time, the differences between GDA94 and WGS84 are small.  Further, a generally accepted means of converting between GDA94 and WGS84 is unknown to the authors of the coordinate conversi
on system.  This technique currently does nothing.  It acts only as a placeholder that will eventually perform the conversion from GDA94 to WGS84 when an appropriate technique for performing this conversion is located.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL(
'225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD
2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Tra
nsformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Is NZG
D2K, No Shift Required; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_NZGD2K}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 236; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0111}\keepn \ATXnt236 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 At the current time, the diff
erences between NZGD2K and WGS84 are small.  Further, a generally accepted means of converting between NZGD2K and WGS84 is unknown to the authors of the coordinate conversion system.  This technique currently does nothing.  It acts only as a placeholder 
that will eventually perform the conversion from NZGD2K to WGS84 when an appropriate technique for performing this conversion is located.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 
\b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Se
ven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Re
quired\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to 
WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCO
N\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard
\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Is WGS84, No Shift Required}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Is WGS84, No Shift Required; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_WGS84}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 237; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0112}\keepn \ATXnt237 Is WGS84, No Shift 
Required\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This is another transformation that essentially does nothing, silently (i.e. never an error), and very quickly.  Obviously, the WGS84 datum definition refer
s to this transformation technique.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD
83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} WGS72 to WGS84}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} WGS72 to WGS84; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_WGS72}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 238; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0113}\keepn \ATXnt238 WGS72 to WGS84\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Thi
s transformation implements the formulae published by the U. S. Defense Mapping Agency in Technical Report 8350.2-B, December 1987 for transforming WGS72 based geographic coordinates to WGS84 based coordinates.  The transformation is hard coded and does 
not require any parameters.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K
, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27
 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Six Parameter Transformation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Six Parameter Transformation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_6PARM}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 239; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0114}\keepn \ATXnt239 Six Parameter Transformation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 As you might expect, this transformation is the Seven Parameter Transformation without one of the parameters.  The omitted parameter is the Scale parameter.  You could achieve the same results by using the Seven Pa
rameter Transformation, setting the scale parameter to zero, and setting the remaining six parameters as appropriate.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transfor
mation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('23
3',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid F
ile\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Gri
d File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Four Parameter Transformation}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Four Parameter Transformation; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_4PARM}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 240; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0115}\keepn \ATXnt240 Four Parameter Transformation\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 As you might expect, this transformation is the Seven Parameter Transformation without three of the parameters.  The omitted parame
ters are the Rotation parameters.  You could achieve the same results by using the Seven Parameter Transformation, setting the three rotation parameters to zero, and setting the remaining four parameters as appropriate.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL
('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL(
'229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA
94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1
)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Tran
sformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} NAD27 to N
AD83 via NADCON; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_NAD27}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 231; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0116}\keepn \ATXnt231 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 This transformation represents the integ
ration of the algorithms originally published by the National Geodetic Survey of the US and Geomatics Canada in the forms commonly known as the NADCON program and the National Transformation (Versions 1 and 2).  That is, this transformation is the means 
by which one would convert from the North American Datum of 1927 (NAD27) to the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 All of the techniques encapsulated in this transformation rely on acc
ess to data files that define the amount of the shift from NAD27 to NAD83 in a grid form.  The coordinate conversion system uses algorithms identical to those used by the respective government published programs to interrogate the data files and determin
e the shift for any given coordinate.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that the coordinate conversion system considers NAD27 and NAD83 to be a single entity.  That is, no distinction is made between Canadian NAD83 o
r US NAD83 with regard to this technique.  In typical operation, the coordinate conversion system will first determine which of the several data files that may be present actually contain coverage for the point to be converted.  In the case where one or 
more files provide coverage, the data file with the densest grid (assumed to be the most accurate) is selected for the calculation.  The Geodetic Catalog feature of the coordinate conversion system can be used to specify the data files which are to be co
nsidered for use, and a means to control which file takes precedence in the case where one or more of the data  files overlap.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more infor
mation.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Note that this transformation implies a conversion from NAD27 to NAD83.  The coordinate conversion system will automatically complete the conversion to WGS84 by also causing the 
\line "Is NAD83, No Shift Required" technique after the NADCON/National Transformation technique is done.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The shift data is stored in a single data file for the Canadian National Transform
ation (either version) and neither of these data files is in the public domain.  These data files cannot be provided as part of the normal distribution of this product and must be obtained from Geomatics Canada, and a license fee is often required.  In t
he case of the US NADCON data files, two files are required fro each region covered.  One file contains the latitude shift and the second contains the longitude shift.  These files are in the public domain and are usually included in the distribution of 
this product.  Should updates become available, you can use the data files in the exact form as they are published buy the National Geodetic Survey.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since the coverage of the data files i
s limited, the coordinate conversion system uses a fallback technique to calculate datum shifts for coordinates that are not covered by the data files.  Users indicate the desired fallback technique through the use of the Geodetic Data Catalog file.  The
 Geodetic Data Catalog file named Nad27ToNad83.gdc contains the list of data files to be used for this transformation.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Refere
nce\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodens
ky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} HARN to NAD83 via NADCON}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} HARN to NAD83 via
 NADCON; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_HARN}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 232; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0117}\keepn \ATXnt232 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 HARN is an acronym for High Accuracy Reference Net
work.  This datum has also been known as HPGN.  HPGN is an acronym for High Precision GPS Network.  Both of these terms refer to the same thing.  This 'thing' has also been referred to as NAD83/91.  This 'thing' is a rework of NAD83 with the aid of GPS t
echnology, as GPS was not functional in 1983.  This technique selection implies the use of the algorithms and data files of the U. S. National Geodetic Survey's NADCON program to effect the shift between NAD83 and HARN.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 As with the NADCON technique described above, this transformation relies on the existence of data files that define the shift at various geographic points in a grid format.  As is the case with the NAD27/NAD83 NADCON data f
iles, these data files come in pairs and are in the public domain.  A Geodetic Data Catalog file is used to inform the coordinate conversion system of which files are to be considered for use, and the location of these data files.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 All of the data files used in this transformation adhere to a specific naming convention.  (That is, as published by the National Geodetic Survey, the adhere to this convention.  The coordinate conversion system 
cares not about the names or locations of the files; as long as the files have the proper .LAS and .LOS extensions and the names and locations are properly recorded in the Geodetic Data Catalog file.)  These files all overlap their neighbors be a substan
tial amount.  When originally introduced, the HARN data files would always produce identical results in the regions of overlap.  However, as the system was completed, this is no longer true.  Therefore, different results for the same point can be obtaine
d depending upon which specific data files are used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Therefore, users should pay significant attention to the set up of the Geodetic Data Catalog for specific data conversions.  For examp
le, if the geography one is working is primarily in Ohio, then the Ohio HPGN file should be listed first in the catalog file.  This will cause that data file to take precedence over all others in the case of overlap.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Users can use the Geodetic Data Catalog file named HarnToNad83.gdc to specify a fallback definition to be used when coordinate data not covered by the data files is processed.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data
 Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.  Since the shift produced by this transformation is relatively small (e.g. one or two feet), the fallback feature is rarely used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225
',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229'
,1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, N
o Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformat
ion\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} NAD83 to CSR
S via Grid File; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_CSRS}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 233; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0118}\keepn \ATXnt233 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 CSRS is an acronym for Canadian Spatial
 Reference System; the Canadian equivalent to the US's HARN.  That is, a very accurate rework of NAD83 using GPS technology.  Like the US HARN, the shifts are in the range of one to two feet (i.e. 40 centimeters).\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This conversion technique is implemented by a series of datum shift grid files of the Canadian National Transformation format.  Unlike other implementations by the Canadians, however, there are multiple overlapping files involved
.  So, surprise, surprise; this situation is managed by the Geodetic Data Catalog feature.  In this case, the name of the data catalog file is \f7 \ATXnt152 Nad83ToCsrs.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0 .  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 You can use the fallback feature of the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  to specify how data points outside the coverage of existing data files are to be handled.  Since the shift produced by this transformation is relatively small (e.g. one or two feet), this fallback feature is rarely used in this case.
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Again, the data files are being generated on a province by province basis.  The individual files may, or may not, be in the public domain.  You may need to acquire the appropriate data fi
les yourself in order to use the transformation.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0 
 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('
231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0 
 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Gri
d Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} AGD66 to GDA94}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} AGD66 to GDA94; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_AGD66}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 241; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0119}\keepn \ATXnt241 AGD66 to GDA94\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Australians have adopted the techniques developed by Geomatics Canada for its National Transformation (Version 2) to define a precise means of converting from the Australian Geodetic Datum of 1966 to the newer Geocentric Datum of Austra
lia 1994.  The data files involved are listed in the Geodetic Data Catalog file named Agd66ToGda94.gdc.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.  Again, the are
as of overlap deserve special attention.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Datum shift data files for this transformation are being developed on a state by state basis.  Therefore, there are (and for some time will remain
) more than one data file for this transformation.  Again, the coordinate conversion system considers AGD66 to be a single entity even through there are several different data files which overlap.  Users are encouraged to use the features of the Geodetic
 Data Catalog concept to insure that the desired data file is used in the regions of overlap.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Also note that the Geodetic Data Catalog feature can also be used to establish a fallback to 
be used to convert a data point which is not covered by any of the data files.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use of this transformation implies the use of the GDA94 to WGS84 transformation technique (as described abov
e) automatically to produce WGS84 coordinates.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four 
Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1
)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to
 GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k vi
a Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} AGD84 to GDA94}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} AGD84 to GDA94; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_AGD84}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 242; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0120}\keepn \ATXnt242 AGD84 to GDA94\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Several of the states in Australia have been using the Australian Geodetic Datum of 1984 for some time now.  This transformation technique implements the conversion of AGD84 to GDA 1994.  Operationally, this technique is identical to t
he AGD66 < - > GDA94 with the exception that a different Geodetic Data Catalog is used (Agd84ToGda94.gdc in this case) and the actual data files that are used are different.  Refer to the description of the AGD66 to GDA94 transformation from more details
.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use of this transformation implies the use of the GDA94 to WGS84 transformation technique (as described above) automatically to produce WGS84 coordinates.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is G
DA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236'
,1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Tr
ansformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Gr
id File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File
\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} NZGD49 to NZGD2K vi
a Grid File}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_NZGD49}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 243; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0121}\keepn \ATXnt243 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 New
 Zealand has also adopted the Canadian technique to define the shift from the New Zealand Geodetic Datum of 1949 (NZGD49) to New Zealand Geocentric Datum of 2000 (NZGD2K).  This implementation is somewhat simpler in that only a single data file is used. 
 However, in order to use the same program code that was implemented for Canadian and Australian geography, a Geodetic Data Catalog file is used even though only a single file is listed.  The Geodetic Data Catalog file used is named Nzdg49ToNzgd2K.gdc.  
Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Use of this transformation implies the use of the NZG
D2K to WGS84 transformation technique (as described above) automatically to produce WGS84 coordinates.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 
Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('2
31',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD
66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Fi
les\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1245}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1245; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0122}\keepn \ATXnt1245 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 ED50 refers to the European Datum of 1950.  ETRF89 refers to Eurpean Terrestrial Reference Frame of 1989.  ED50 has been used in (surprise) Europe for many years.  ERRF89 is essentially equivalent to WGS84 with
 slight modifications to account for the tectonic movement of the continental plate(s).  Thus, WGS84 and ETRF89 are, for most folks, the same thing.  The actual differences are measured in centimeters, and only specialized applications use data with that
 degree of accuracy.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 As of this writing, we know of only one grid data file in this class, and it is not official.  Also, we have been unable to locate any official reference to this type
 of datum transformation.  All we have is a legitimate data file in the Canadian National Transformation, Version 2, (i.e. .gsb) format.  So, this feature may not be of any value at the current time.  Should any grid data files for this transformation ev
er become official, and they are published in the Canadian National Transformation, Version 2, format, you simply need to add a reference to the data file to the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  file named \f7 \ATXnt152 Ed50ToEtrf89.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0  and you're in business.  (Note, if such a file does not exist on your system, simply create one.  Geodetic Data Catalogs are simply text files and can be created with Notepad.  The actual grid
 files can reside in any folder on your system.  The Geodetic Data Catalog must reside in the principal data directory which contains the dictionary files.)\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD
83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72
 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via N
ADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GREF_ATS77}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 244; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Mai
n}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0123}\keepn \ATXnt244 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The Average Terrestrial System of 1977 has been used in the maritime provinces of Canada since (
surprise) 1977.  This transformation uses data files in the Canadian National Transformation (version 2) format to determine the shift required to properly transform ATS77 based geographic coordinates to CSRS based coordinates.  Note that:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the result of using the grid shift data alone is CSRS (Canadian Spatial Reference System) and not WGS84.  The Coordinate Conversion System then proceeds to conver
t the CSRS coordinates to WGS84.\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 each of the different provinces involved have produced a data file covering the geography of their respective pro
vinces,\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the individual data files are not in the public domain and must be obtained by users directly from the provincial governments involved, an
d\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 a Geodetic Data Catalog file is used to manage the multiple file situation.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The Geodetic Data Catalog file involved in this transformation is \f7 \ATXnt152 Ats77ToCsrs.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0 .  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.  The fallback feature of the Geodetic Data Catalog is fully supported by this 
technique.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1243 Maritime Provinces, Special Case\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O1238\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information related to ATS77 and the Mariti
me Provinces.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 G
eodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL(
'227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift R
equired\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl 
\uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 E
D50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !A
L('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b 
\page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1248}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1248; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0124}\keepn \ATXnt1248 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Use this technique to select a conversion from the Tokyo Datum to the Japanese Geodetic Datum of 2000 using one or more of the grid shift definition data files created for this conversion.  For all practical purposes, the Japanese Geodetic Dat
um of 2000 is considered to be the same as WGS84.  While there are differences, the magnitude of these differences are not likely to adversely affect the typical GIS application.  Note that:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the grid shift files are basically text files in a specific data format;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the data files we were provide
d with for testing had the .par extension;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 from examining the data format, we believe it is likely that a single, rather large, file could be cons
tructed to cover the entire nation of Japan;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 and that smaller files could also be constructed to cover smaller regions;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 since our Japanese is a but rusty, we have not been able to determine exactly how or where official data files cane be obtained; and\par
\f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 a 
Geodetic Data Catalog file is used to manage the multiple file situation.\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the Geodetic Data Data file is named \f7 \ATXnt152 TokyoToJgd2k.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The Geodetic Data Catalog file involved in this transformation is \f7 \ATXnt152 TokyoToJgd2k.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0 .  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more information.  The fallback feature of the Geodetic Data Catalog is fully supported by this technique.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Data in the original textual fo
rmat is difficult to deal with in an efficient manner, and this data does not change very often, if ever.  Therefore, when first asked to use data in any of these files, the Coordinate Conversion System will make a binary copy which it will use for futur
e calculations.  The first time you use the Coordinate Conversion System to convert data using this technique, this copy process will cause a slight pause in the calculation process.  Once the binary copies are made, they are retained and will be used un
til such time as the Coordinate Conversion System detects that the original data files have been changed or updated.  Thus, this pause should only occur the first time this technique is used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0 
 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Para
meter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via 
Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via
 Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} NTF to RGF93 via Grid File}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} NTF to RGF93 via Grid File; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1251}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1251; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0125}\keepn \ATXnt1251 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 NTF is an acronym for Nouvelle Triangulation de la France, and RGF93 is an acrony
m for R\'e9seau G\'e9d\'e9sique Fran\'e7ais en 1993.  These are French reference systems, and RGF93 closely resembles WGS84 and is considered by most to be equivalent to WGS84.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 This trans
formation uses data files in a format specific to this transformation (although it is likely that this format will be chosen by others for future datum shift development).  We only know of one official data file and this file covers the entire country of
 France.  Note that:\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 since there is only one data file, a Geodetic Data Catalog is not used for this transformation;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 since there is no Geodetic Data Catalog, the single data file must be named \f7 \ATXnt152 gr3df97a.txt;\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 since there is no Geodetic Data Catalog, the single data file must be located in the primary data folder searched by the Coordinate Conversion System;\par
\pard\tx675\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt14\li675\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f2 \ATXnt-1 \'a7\f1 \tab \ATXnt0 the data file can be obtained from the IGN web site (see link below).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Data in the original textual format is difficult to deal with in an e
fficient manner, and this data does not change very often, if ever.  Therefore, when first asked to use the data file, the Coordinate Conversion System will make a binary copy which it will use for future calculations.  The first time you use the Coordin
ate Conversion System to convert data using this technique, this copy process will cause a slight pause in the calculation process.  Once the binary copies are made, they are retained and will be used until such time as the Coordinate Conversion System d
etects that the original data files have been changed or updated.  Thus, this pause should only occur the first time this technique is used.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Accessing datum shift data files without using
 the Geodetic Data Catalog concept is inconsistent with the rest of the system.  At least several clients have express that opinion.  Therefore, it is likely that a future release of the Coordinate Conversion System will use the Geodetic Data Catalog fea
ture to enable the single data file to have a name other than that specified here, and enable the file to reside in a folder other than the primary data folder.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Link to the data file:
\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f8 \fs18 \ATXnt160 http://www.ign.fr/telechargement/Pi/SERVICES/gr3df97a.txt\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \f1 \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83,
 No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 
to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  
\cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} NAD27 To CSRS via Grid File; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1244}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1244; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0126}\keepn \ATXnt1244 NAD27 To CSRS via Grid 
File\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Several of the Canadian provinces have published grid shift files in the National Transformation, Version Two, format (i.e. .gsb) which convert directly from NA
D27 to CSRS (Canadian Spatial Reference System), thus bypassing the intermediary NAD83.  Select this technique to implement a conversion using such a file.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The actual files used, the loca
tions on your system, and the order in which they are searched, are specified in a \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  file named \f7 \ATXnt152 Nad27ToCsrs.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0 .  This conversio
n is only active when converting directly between these two datums.  Since CSRS implies Canada, use of this technique for geography outside of Canada is inappropriate.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 There are some spec
ial considerations with regard to this conversion when applied to geography in the Maritime Provinces of Canada.  Refer to \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht1243 Maritime Provinces, Special Case\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O1238\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  for more detaile
d information.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs22 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 
Bursa/Wolf (aka Helmert) Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('227',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Seven Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('226',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Three Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('228',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Molodensky\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('229',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Multiple Regression\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('230',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NAD83, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('234',1)
\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is GDA94, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('235',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is NZGD2K, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('236',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Is WGS84
, No Shift Required\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('237',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 WGS72 to WGS84\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Six Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('239',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Four Parameter Transformation\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('240',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD27 to NAD83 via N
ADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('231',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 HARN to NAD83 via NADCON\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('232',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0 
 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NAD83 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('233',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD66 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('241',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 AGD84 to GDA94\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('242',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NZGD49 to NZGD2K via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('243',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ED50 to ETRF89 via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1245',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 ATS77 to CSRS via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('244',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Tokyo to JGD2k via Grid Files\v \ATXv32000 
\ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1248',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 NTF to RGF93 via Grid File\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1251',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard
\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Geodetic Data Catalog}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Geodetic Data Catalog; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O222}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 222; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0127}\keepn \ATXnt222 Geodetic Data Catalog\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Datum conversions that rely on the existence of one or more grid data files use the concept of a Geodetic Data Catalog to provide the name and location of the actual grid data files which are to
 be used.  An ordinary text file with the .gdc extension is used for this purpose.  These files are also referred to as .gdc files.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Since these files are simple text files, they can be cr
eated and/or modified using any text editor, such as Notepad.  You can use a word processor if you are careful to save the file as an ordinary text file.  Each line of text in the file provides the Coordinate Conversion System with the name of the file, 
the location of the file, and some information as to how the file is to be used.  Up to four data elements can be specified.  Only the first element, the file name and location is a required element.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In most cases, the Geodetic Data Catalogs provided by your software's distribution are fine for general use.  However, there are definite cases where you will want to tweak these files for your own unique situation.  These situations are the s
everal cases where there are several data files involved, and the coverage of these files overlap.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 For example, in the case of NAD27 to NAD83 (the letters NAD refer to North American Datu
m) conversion, there are several files.  The U. S. files by themselves do not present a problem as they do not overlap.  However, when we add the Canadian National Transformation file to the catalog, we have a lot of geography where the data files overla
p.  If the use of either data file in the case of overlap produced the same results, we would not have a problem.  However, this is rarely the case.  Therefore, users often wish to specify which file gets used in the case of overlap.  This is one of the 
functions of the Geodetic Data Catalog.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 For each point which is to be converted, the Coordinate Conversion System will look at all the files listed in the appropriate Geodetic Data Catalo
g.  In selecting a file to use, the Coordinate Conversion System will first determine which of the files listed actually cover the geographic location of the point being converted.  Of the files providing coverage,the Coordinate Conversion System will th
en select the files with the densest grid; that is the grid shift data file in which the grid cells are the smallest.  (It is presumed that the smaller the grid cell, the more accurate the data in the file.)  In the case where two or more files meet thes
e initial criteria, the Coordinate Conversion System will choose the first file listed in the Geodetic Data Catalog.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 While the Coordinate Conversion System can determine the grid density 
of most all datum shift grid files, users can use the Geodetic Data Catalog to override the actual grid density value to control the datum shift grid file selection process.  Further, users can alter the order in which the datum shift grid files are list
ed to further control the datum shift grid file selection process.  The following sections describe how one can use the interactive Geodetic Data Catalog Editor, or simply use a text editor on the .gdc file, to accomplish these tasks.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Geodetic Data Catalogs can also be used to improve the performance of the Coordinate Conversion System.  For example, the HARN data catalog file must contain as many as 22 file references.  If your data conve
rsions are limited to a single state, the unused files may be removed and performance of HARN conversions improved somewhat.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx3510\cellx36270\intbl \fs20 \b 
In This Section \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Catalog Contents\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('223',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Fallback Datum\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('224',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Mariti
me Provinces Special Case\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb120\sa0\ATXpt111\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate Conversion System\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('168',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Ov
erview\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('169',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Referencing\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('175',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Coordinate System Key Name Conventions\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('181',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Dictionary Entry Protection\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('188',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialog Support\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('186',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2970\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Interactive Dialogs\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('202',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx2475\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Supported Projections\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('846',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx6480\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\ri4275\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Reference\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('225',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 
\b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Catalog Contents}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Catalog Contents; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GDCCONTENT}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 223; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0128}\keepn \ATXnt223 Catalog Contents\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 The four d
ata elements that appear on each line of text are as follows, the elements are separated from each other by commas.\par
\pard\tx390\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt93\li390\ri105\fi-270\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 File Name and Location\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   The first element must be the name and location of the file.  A fully qualified path name may be provided, the file extension must always be given. Path names do not represent a complete path name are considered to be relative to the folder (directory) 
in which the catalog file itself resides.\par
\tab For NADCON file references, you need only reference one of the .LAS/.LOS files.  The Coordinate Conversion System will automatically load the companion file.\par
\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Buffer Size\f1 
\b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Access to grid data files is buffered.  That is a large portion of the file is usually read into memory to prevent constant accessing of the hard disk drive during conversions.  You can use this element to override the default buffer siz
e for a file.  The default buffer size is dynamically chosen for specific files, but does not exceed 150KB per file or the actual size of the file, which ever is smaller.  Buffer size may be specified in decimal or hexadecimal format.\par
\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Flags\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   Currently, the Flags element is unused.  In future revisions of the Coordinate Conversion System, the flags element may be used to provide users with additional control as to how these grid files are accessed.  Flags may
 be specified in decimal or hexadecimal format.\par
\f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 Grid Density\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0   All grid files have a grid density specification in the file or associated with them by default.   Density is specified as the width/height of t
he grid cells in minutes of latitude and longitude. The Coordinate Conversion System uses this density to choose between files in situations where the files overlap each other.  The presumption here is that the file with the smallest grid cell (highest d
ensity) will produce the best results.  You can use this element to override the internal density setting and cause a specific file to be used in all overlap situations.  Grid density is specified as a single number.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\fi0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Fallback Datum\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('224',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Maritime Provinces Special Case\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Fallback Datum}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Fallback Datum; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} csHLPID_GDC_FALLBACK}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 224; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0129}\keepn \ATXnt224 Fallback Datum\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 Fallback refers to the calcula
tions to be performed when the primary calculation fails.  For example, when converting from NAD27 to NAD83, what should the system do when presented with a point that is not covered by any of the datum shift data files.  In these cases, you can instruct
 the system to invoke the fallback technique.  The fallback technique is a reference to another datum definition, but one based on a technique that does not usually have limitations (such as the Seven Parameter transformation).\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 A fallback definition consists of the name of a datum definition that exists in the Datum Dictionary.  Additionally, the fallback datum definition must \f3 \b \cf16 \ATXnt24 not\f1 \b0 \cf0 \ATXnt0  be based on a tr
ansformation technique that relies on data files.  That is, the fallback datum definition must be based on either the: Molodensky, Multiple Regression, Bursa/Wolf, Seven Parameter, Six Parameter, Four Parameter, or Three Parameter techniques.  These tech
niques are not subject to failure based on regional concerns.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 To include a fallback specification in the catalog file, simply add a line of text that contains the keyword "Fallback" (case
 insensitive) and the datum name as indicated in the following example:\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \tab Fallback=NAD27-48\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 In this case, the name of
 the fallback datum is "NAD27-48".  This entry should appear on its own line in the data catalog file.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The astute user may have realized that the Multiple Regression technique can indeed 
fail on a regional basis.  That is, fail due to being asked to convert a coordinate outside the useful range of the conversion technique.  However, as described below, the Multiple Regression technique has its own fallback capability built into it.  Thus
, datums based on the Multiple Regression technique which are to be used as a fallback should always have their own fallback feature invoked.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Catalog Contents\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('223',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Maritime Provinces S
pecial Case\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('1238',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page {\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Maritime Provinces Special Case}{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} Maritime Provinces Special Case; }{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} O1238}{\up A}{\footnote {\up A} 1238; }{\up >}{\footnote {\up >} Main}{\up +}{\footnote {\up +} SEQ168:0130}\keepn \ATXnt1238 Maritime Provinces Special Case\ATXnt0 \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\sa0\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs16 \b0 In the Maritime Provinces of Canada, there are four datums in curre
nt use.  Thus, providing conversions from any one to any of the others requires 12 different transformation possibilities.  As of this release, the Coordinate Conversion System supports eight of the twelve in a manner sanctioned by the individual governm
ental agencies in these provinces.  The remaining four transformations are not sanctioned by any of these governmental agencies, but are supported by the Coordinate Conversion System.  There can be no guarantee whatsoever that conversion involving the un
sanctioned, but supported, conversions would be considered correct by anyone.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b Unsanctioned Transformations\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 The u
nsanctioned (but supported) transformations are NAD83 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  CSRS and ATS77 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  NAD83.  This is largely because the Maritime provinces never officially adopted NAD83.  Conversions between NAD27 and NAD83 i
n the provinces are sanctioned, but only because the national government developed and sanctioned the transformation as part of the original National Transformation project.  To this date, conversions between NAD83 and CSRS are being accomplished by the 
individual provinces.  Since the Maritime Provinces never adopted NAD83, they will not be (so we are told) be producing a shift file for NAD83 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  CSRS conversions.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The Coordinate Conversion System achieves conversion in these cases by assuming that CSRS and NAD83 are the same.  This assumption is good enough for many uses as the difference is known to never to exceed 40 centimeters.  However, users should be awar
e that in the Maritime Provinces, conversions to/from NAD83 for any datum other than NAD27 will be suspect.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b NAD27 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  ATS77\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 There exists rather unique transformation algorithm and associated data files for this conversion.  The algorithm (actually program) name is \f9 \fs20 \ATXnt149 TRANSFORM\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  and there are six data files;
 one file for each province and in each direction.  As of this writing, we are sure that we are permitted to distribute these data files.  You will need to obtain them from the provincial government(s).  Once these data files are made available, register
 their locations in the \f7 \ATXnt152 Nad27ToAts77.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0  \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  file and sanctioned results can be obtained.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 The files which you will want to obtain have file names such as \f7 \ATXnt152 TRNB2777.dat\f1 \ATXnt0  or \f7 \ATXnt152 TRNB7727.dat\f1 \ATXnt0 .  The second two letters in the file name indicate the province to which the file ap
plies.  The sequence of the 27 and 77 in the file name indicate the direction of the conversion supported by the data file.  Note that these files are the very same files you receive when you license the \f9 \fs20 \ATXnt150 NbGeoCal\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  pro
gram from Services New Brunswick.  Simply point to them from inside the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  file.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 Take ca
re to notice that there exists a large degree of overlap among these files, and in the region of overlap, the different files do not produce the same results.  Therefore, you will want to pay strict attention to the order of the data files in the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 .  Another approach to this problem is to simply register only the files which apply to the province in which you are working.  This will ensure proper results.
\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b ATS77 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  CSRS\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 This datum shift is sanctioned and is accomplished in the normal manner 
by the Coordinate Conversion System.  That is, a Geodetic Data Catalog is used to reference one or more grid data files in the standard National Transformation, Version 2, (i.e. \f7 \ATXnt152 .gsb\f1 \ATXnt0 ) file format.  The Maritime Provinces do sanc
tion ATS77 and CSRS.  These shift files are available from the provincial governments, and are the same files distributed with the \f9 \fs20 \ATXnt150 NbGeoCalc\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  program.  For example, \f7 \ATXnt152 NS7783.gsb\f1 \ATXnt0  provides the sh
ift for Nova Scotia.  Again, be careful of the overlap condition, and be sure to either order the files in the Geodetic Data Catalog file properly, or limit your reference to one file/province that is appropriate for your work.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b NAD27 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  NAD83\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 This conversion is handled in the normal manner.  In fact, if you have access/license to use the s
tandard National Transformation, Version 2, data file, you need not do anything special.  Be aware, that while the \f9 \fs20 \ATXnt150 NbGeoCalc\f1 \fs16 \ATXnt0  distribution includes its own grid shift file for this conversion, the file itself is only 
a subset of the standard national file.  Typically, therefore, most users do not need to do anything to add this conversion to their application.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 There is an overlap problem here as well,
 but the problem is overlapping with the US data files.  So again, take care to make sure that the references to the grid shift data files are in the order of preference you desire.  A sure way to force use of a specific grid file is to remove references
 to all the other files from the \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 .\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb240\ATXpt107\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b  NAD27 \f2 \ATXnt29 \'f3\f1 \ATXnt0  CSRS\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \b0 This is particular conversion is sanctioned, and fully supported, but presents a problem which, admittedly, does not fit well with the original design of the Coordinate Conversion System.  T
he officially sanctioned means to perform this conversion is to convert the NAD27 coordinates to ATS77 using the algorithm discussed at length above, and then convert the resulting ATS77 coordinates to CSRS using the algorithm for that process described 
above.  Thus, we actually need to apply two distinct conversions in order to achieve the sanctioned results.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 You can instruct the Coordinate Conversion System that this is what you desire
/require by making an admittedly strange entry into the \f7 \ATXnt152 Nad27ToCsrs.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0  \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0  file.  You add a reference to the \f7 \ATXnt152 Ats77ToCsrs.gdc\f1 \ATXnt0  file as if it were a grid
 shift file.\par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb75\ATXpt4\li105\ri105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 There are several other provinces which supply grid shift files to convert directly from NAD27 to CSRS (this saves users lots of extra processing).  Thus, you must use the po
sitioning of the strange \f7 \ATXnt152 Ats77ToCsrs\f1 \ATXnt0  entry, and the parameters associated with it, to control the order of applicable data file search.  A simple rule to follow is to simply use a single entry in the \f7 \ATXnt152 Nad27ToCsrs.gd
c\f1 \ATXnt0  \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXht273 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 O222\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXht0 ; that is the one you need to be applied for your current project.\par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\ATXpt111\li105\ri0\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \trowd\trgaph120\trleft-120\cellx4080\intbl \fs20 \b See Also \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \fs16 \b0 \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Geodetic Data Catalog\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('222',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Catalog Contents\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('223',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \par
\pard\tx9990\ATXts1410\sb15\sa15\ATXpt115\li105\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \intbl \uldb \ATXul1280 \ATXnt-3 Fallback Datum\v \ATXv32000 \ulnone \ATXul0 !AL('224',1)\v0 \ATXv0 \ATXnt0  \cell\row\pard\ATXendtbl
\pard\tx9495\ATXts1410\sb120\sa120\ATXpt8\sl240\ATXbrdr0 \fs28 \b \page }